Title: Examining the impact of renewable energy technologies on sustainability development in the middle east and north Africa region
Authors: Saeed Hameed Aldulaimi, Marwan M. Abdeldayem
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Engineering Business Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1177/18479790221110835
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4285070486

Abstract:
The aims of this study are two folds: First to examine the impact of renewable energy technologies on sustainability development in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Second to test the awareness and cultural acceptance of societies in MENA region of the need to preserve the environment and reduce pollution by paving the way for finding alternatives to energy and developing emerging energy, which in turn will contribute to sustainable development and preserve the environment from pollution due to energy produced through fossil sources. The method of the current study relied on both primary data and secondary data. Hence, a questionnaire survey was developed to collect the required data. While, secondary data sources are obtained through the Web site finance.yahoo.com. The data processing techniques were carried out using Stata 16 software and using the Multiple Linear Regression method. The sample of the study consisted of 653 people from different MENA countries, i.e. Egypt, Jordan, Algeria, Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, UAE, and Saudi Arabia. The results revealed two types of data, quantitative data and qualitative data. Quantitative data is excluded from the secondary data analysis that renewable energy technologies have a positive effect on sustainability development in the MENA region. Qualitative data; as the survey includes some open ended questions to give an avenue to respondents to provide further feedback regarding their experience and perception of renewable energy. The results revealed a high degree of cultural perception of Renewable Energy Technologies of the communities in the MENA. Also, people are aware and ready to afford the cost and efforts to generate clean energy that promote sustainability. This study recommends that governments should invest in renewable energy and highlights the urgent need for clean energy to emerge in the MENA region. JEL classifications Q43. Q32. O13
