Title: Segmentation of e-customers in terms of sustainable last-mile delivery
Authors: Maja Kiba-Janiak, Katarzyna Cheba, Magdalena Mucowska, Leise Kelli de Oliveira
Year: 2022
Venue: Oeconomia Copernicana
DOI: https://doi.org/10.24136/oc.2022.032
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313393880

Abstract:
Research background: A rapidly developing e-commerce market and growing customer expectations regarding the speed and frequency of deliveries have made the last mile of the supply chain more challenging. The expectations of e-customers increase every year. They choose those companies that deliver goods faster and cheaper than others. A significant group of customers in Poland still selects home delivery. Many of them frequently return products to the retailer. These expectations and behaviour pose a challenge for the transport companies to deliver parcels to individual customers soon after the purchase, sometimes even on the same day. In addition, increasingly frequent deliveries contribute to environmental pollution, congestion, and accidents, as well as more expensive deliveries. Purpose of the article: The paper aims to identify e-customers? preferences and assess their impact on sustainable last-mile delivery (LMD) in the e-commerce market. The authors have also identified factors influencing e-customers? behaviour to make last-mile delivery more sustainable. Methods: The conjoint analysis was applied to evaluate a set of profiles defined by selected attributes in order to investigate the overall preferences for the profiles created by the respondents to the survey. Findings &amp; value added: The segmentation of e-customers according to their preferences connected with last-mile delivery was presented. The added value of the paper is the presentation of the methodology to assess the impact of customer preferences on sustainable last-mile delivery. The obtained results may contribute to the formulation of recommendations for e-commerce and logistics companies regarding the preferences of e-customers to improve the sustainability of last-mile delivery.
