Title: Improving sustainability of affordable housing using innovative technologies: Case study of SIAH-Livable
Authors: Alireza Moghayedi, Chisomo Phiri, Ann-Marie Ellmann
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific African
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sciaf.2023.e01819
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385389240

Abstract:
Rapid urbanization presents a major challenge in achieving affordable and sustainable housing. In the face of the problem, rapid urbanisation represents, there is room for innovation. Advancements in sustainable design methods, new materials, and innovative building technologies offer potential solutions for developing sustainable, innovative, and affordable housing (SIAH). This study investigates various sustainable design techniques, materials, and technologies suitable for designing SIAH in the South African climate in concordance with local building codes and regulations. The study compares the building performance of SIAH-Livable, as assessed by energy embodied, energy demand, and water usage, with that of conventional low-cost housing using the EDGE Buildings App. The results validate that SIAH-Livable building performance is significantly less water and energy, reducing consumption by 55.17% and 21.06%, respectively. Additionally, SIAH-Livable exhibits a notable 66.9% reduction in embodied energy levels while remaining within the construction cost range defined by the South African government for low-cost housing. Furthermore, the analysis confirms that appropriate design techniques, new materials, and technologies not only enhance the sustainability of the house but also improve its affordability by reducing lifecycle costs. The study concludes that sustainable design techniques, including passive design, the use of recycled and local materials, and socio-technical innovations, are effective means of enhancing the sustainability and affordability of housing, contributing to the development of SIAH. Importantly, this research establishes the association between sustainability and affordability in South African housing design, offering insights that can be adapted and applied to other African countries.
