Title: Empirical Research on the Sustainable Development of Ecotourism with Environmental Education Concepts
Authors: Chih-Cheng Huang, Shang-Pin Li, Yung‐Kuan Chan, Ming-Yuan Hsieh, Jiin-Chyuan Mark Lai
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151310307
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382813365

Abstract:
Most governments, local organizations, tourism agents, and scholars have extensively promoted ecotourism in recent years. However, government policies have been ignored, public opinion has not been updated, the local tourism infrastructure is incomplete, and operational practices have been poor for a long time. This is because ecotourism has not made any empirical profits, and additionally, it has even incurred more practical costs, which have encouraged few tourism agents to execute and operate ecotourism correctly. The contributive findings of this study are the following: (1) Beyond the evaluated measurements of quantitative and qualitative analyses, the sustainable development of ecotourism essentially creates benefits for the local industry and the environment, and actively assists the industry in improving the business environment, in enhancing service quality, and in creating ecotourism benefits. (2) It is very apparent that the tourism offices of central and local governments, as well as related travel agents and local organizations, have to be trained with regard to the appropriate consumption of sightseeing products, with a consideration of productive yield and a critical focus on quality instead of quantity. Particular attention should also be given to local traveling capacity as well as support for regional development. The maintenance of the local cultural landscape or ecological integrity can directly offer tourists an unprecedented travel experience, which could encourage them to share their knowledge with others in society after traveling, and consequently promote the sustainable development of ecotourism. (3) The results point to the fact that the tourism offices of central and local governments, related travel agents, and local organizations require training in providing special assistance to local residents with regard to the conservation of natural resources. Special training must likewise be provided concerning environmental protection, allowing them to educate the tourists in terms of politely respecting local traditions, norms, and cultures while traveling, since these activities are directly related to the sustainable development of ecotourism. Predictably, beyond this research, these three contributive findings can directly become the research foundation of future works that intend to focus on the sustainability of global ecotourism.
