Title: Digital Tools to Serve Geotourism and Sustainable Development at Psiloritis UNESCO Global Geopark in COVID Times and Beyond
Authors: Charalampos Fassoulas, Emmanouel Nikolakakis, Spiridon Staridas
Year: 2022
Venue: Geosciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/geosciences12020078
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4210924819

Abstract:
Digital tools that aid geolocation, geointerpretation and geomodelling are increasingly used in the promotion of geoheritage and geoconservation. UNESCO Global Geoparks (UGGps) are complex regions that require a variety of approaches to advance geoconservation and public awareness, holistic heritage management and sustainable development. UGGps need more diversified and applied digital tools to address these subjects. Additional efforts are made through their commitment to achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs) in the changing and challenging world of the COVID-19 pandemic and the exacerbation of climate change. In this study, we present three new digital applications developed for the Psiloritis UGGp in Southern Greece. These digital tools were developed under the implementation of the “Enhancement Plan” of the geopark via the RURITAGE, a project that supports rural regeneration through conservation, with a focus on local heritage. Digital tools developed in the project include an interactive digital map that demonstrates all properties of local heritage, products and services, two story maps focusing on historic churches and monasteries of the Amari district and on the natural and cultural values of Nida plateau, and a business-listing map with the affiliated geopark enterprises. These digital tools combine multiple applications and methods such as Wordpress webpages, web maps, spherical panoramas, multimedia, site interpretation, geolocation and virtual reality to aid the interpretation of natural and cultural heritage, promote important sites, demonstrate overlaps between nature and human society and support local productivity. Digital tools offer online access to interested parties in any area and are also used for in situ information sites. They are user-friendly, device-adjusted and available for sharing on social media and webpages. The applicability and effectiveness of these digital tools are proven to advance geotourism and the SDGs, in line with the provisions of the “World After roadmap” of UGGps. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the “visibility” of the Psiloritis UGGp was doubled via the use of these digital tools, as they have become popular among the general public.
