Title: Does Islamic Sustainable Finance Support Sustainable Development Goals to Avert Financial Risk in the Management of Islamic Finance Products? A Critical Literature Review
Authors: Lukman Raimi, Ibrahim Adeniyi Abdur-Rauf, Saheed Afolabi Ashafa
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of risk and financial management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm17060236
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399393077

Abstract:
Policymakers, governments, and Islamic financial institutions are increasingly focusing on sustainable development, leading to an in-depth examination of current sustainable finance practices, projects, and product portfolios. This study examines the role of Islamic sustainable finance (ISF) in promoting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to avert financial risk in the management of Islamic Finance Products (ISFP). Through qualitative analysis, the study conducts a critical literature review (CLR) that incorporates conceptual, theoretical, and empirical perspectives on ISF and SDGs and addresses two specific research questions. Our study examines over 48 journals from 2010 to 2024 and provides insights into how ISF advances the SDGs across all environmental, social, and economic dimensions. It also highlights that ISF promotes green entrepreneurship by investing in sustainable projects, supporting SMEs, and offering alternative financing. ISF also promotes financial stability, justice, and growth and is consistent with the principles of Maqasid al-Shari’ah. Key ISF mechanisms that promote the SDGs include Islamic Green Sukuk, Socially Responsible Investment Funds, Islamic Microfinance, and Islamic Impact Investing. Integrating Islamic ethical principles into financial activities is crucial for inclusive and sustainable economic development. These qualitative insights are critical for policymakers, Islamic financial institutions, Halal entrepreneurs, environmentalists, and investors to understand the potential of Islamic social finance (ISF) to support sustainable practices, projects, and portfolios. Furthermore, the ISFs alignment with Maqasid al-Shari’ah highlights its importance in promoting sustainable development while mitigating financial risk in ISFPs management. The study offers robust contributions to the existing literature to provide comprehensive insights into how ISF can be effectively used to promote SDGs.
