Title: Use of beneficial bacterial endophytes: A practical strategy to achieve sustainable agriculture
Authors: Rudoviko Galileya Medison, Li-tao Tan, Milca Banda Medison, Kenani Edward Chiwina
Year: 2022
Venue: AIMS Microbiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3934/microbiol.2022040
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313423745

Abstract:
Beneficial endophytic bacteria influence their host plant to grow and resist pathogens. Despite the advantages of endophytic bacteria to their host, their application in agriculture has been low. Furthermore, many plant growers improperly use synthetic chemicals due to having no or little knowledge of the role of endophytic bacteria in plant growth, the prevention and control of pathogens and poor access to endobacterial bioproducts. These synthetic chemicals have caused soil infertility, environmental contamination, disruption to ecological cycles and the emergence of resistant pests and pathogens. There is more that needs to be done to explore alternative ways of achieving sustainable plant production while maintaining environmental health. In recent years, the use of beneficial endophytic bacteria has been noted to be a promising tool in promoting plant growth and the biocontrol of pathogens. Therefore, this review discusses the roles of endophytic bacteria in plant growth and the biocontrol of plant pathogens. Several mechanisms that endophytic bacteria use to alleviate plant biotic and abiotic stresses by helping their host plants acquire nutrients, enhance plant growth and development and suppress pathogens are explained. The review also indicates that there is a gap between research and general field applications of endophytic bacteria and suggests a need for collaborative efforts between growers at all levels. Furthermore, the presence of scientific and regulatory frameworks that promote advanced biotechnological tools and bioinoculants represents major opportunities in the applications of endophytic bacteria. The review provides a basis for future research in areas related to understanding the interactions between plants and beneficial endophytic microorganisms, especially bacteria.
