Title: Sustainable cement replacement using waste eggshells: A review on mechanical properties of eggshell concrete and strength prediction using artificial neural network
Authors: Sagar Paruthi, Afzal Husain Khan, Ashish Kumar, Fanish Kumar, Mohd Abul Hasan, Hassan M. Magbool, Mohammad Saood Manzar
Year: 2023
Venue: Case Studies in Construction Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cscm.2023.e02160
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4377194552

Abstract:
Though the European Commission classifies eggshell as a hazardous material, using eggshell powder in place of cement can aid in waste reduction and contribute to sustainability initiatives. Eggshell powder replaces cement in concrete manufacturing due to its high calcium content. Eggshell is impermeable in nature, so it helps in reducing the permeability of concrete. Eggshell powder fastens the process of hydration of cement by the formation of monocarboaluminate during the mixing of material at the time of casting. This paper includes a detailed study of the process production of eggshell powder, the properties of eggshell powder concrete, and the relationship between different properties has been determined. In addition, Artifical Neural Network approach has been used to predict the strength of eggshell powder concrete to reduce the labour cost and experimental time. In the end, microstructure of eggshell powder and its application in various engineering products have been reviewed. After analyzing the qualities of eggshell powder concrete, it was determined that replacing up to 20% of the cement in concrete with eggshell powder increases the material's strength. The ANN model's results also demonstrate its effectiveness in forecasting the strength of eggshell powder concrete, with an R2 value of 0.96. So, it clearly shows that eggshell powder can be used to replace cement to improve the properties of concrete and reduce the percentage of cement usage. Finally, the conclusions and discussion of this study addressed the eco-friendly utilization of eggshell powder in construction applications.
