Title: Analysis of Hybrid Grid-Connected Renewable Power Generation for Sustainable Electricity Supply in Sierra Leone
Authors: Foday Conteh, Hiroshi Takahashi, Ashraf Mohamed Hemeida, Narayanan Krishnan, Alexey Mikhaylov, Tomonobu Senjyu
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su132011435
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3206844803

Abstract:
The provision of electricity in a reliable and sustainable manner in provincial towns and villages in the small West Africa state of Sierra Leone requires the adoption of appropriate technologies. The rapid increase in electricity demand has generated great interest in how to tackle a possible long-lasting energy deficiency in the country. This paper aims at analyzing the techno-economic feasibility of a hybrid renewable energy system (HRES) for the sustainable rural electrification of Lungi Town, Port Loko District, Sierra Leone. Optimization, economic, reliability, and sustainability analyses were carried out using a genetic algorithm (GA), with the main objectives of minimizing the loss of power supply probability (LPSP) and cost of energy (COE). Three different case scenarios were configured, using a diesel generator (DG), wind/PV/DG/battery, and wind/PV/battery. Various combinations of these case scenarios were compared to determine which option was the most economically viable. In order to determine the case scenario with the lowest LPSP and COE, the operations and maintenance costs of the three cases were calculated. Using only DG for case one, the operations and maintenance cost amounted to USD 1050,348.12/year. The operation and maintenance cost for case two, which included wind/PV/DG/battery, was found to be USD 561,674.06/year. The operations and maintenance cost for case three, which included wind/PV/battery, was found to be USD 36,000/year. In standalone microgrids, however, the use of renewable energy sources is not reliable due to the uncertainty of renewable energy sources. Consequently, the simulation results show that the wind/PV/DG/battery-based HRES is the most cost-effective, reliable, and sustainable for the specific location in comparison to the current traditional method of electricity generation. Since there is abundant solar radiation with substantial wind speeds across the country, this HRES can be applied in most rural and remote areas in place of the current diesel generators (DGs) that are widely deployed in the country.
