Title: Sustainable Management and Policies: The Roles of Stakeholders in the Practice of Inclusive Education in Digital Transformation
Authors: Refia Ari, Zehra Altınay, Fahriye Altınay, Gökmen Dağlı, Engin Ari
Year: 2022
Venue: Electronics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11040585
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4212866808

Abstract:
Children are a country’s most valuable asset. Educating them and bringing them into society is one of the most fundamental tasks of a nation. The disadvantageous position that individuals with a disability are exposed to shows the importance of the need for inclusive education for the quality of life. It is important to use the merits of digital transformation to provide services and education for all to support sustainability. This research aims to shine a light on the problems related to inclusive education faced in the special education schools and rehabilitation centers and put forward suggestions for digital transformation. As inclusive means inclusion, social interaction, access, and equality for education, the role of digital transformation is examined for the quality of inclusive education. Self-reflection is a qualitative form which was employed in the research involving school managers and teachers who were selected randomly from the Special Education Schools and Rehabilitation Centers that participated in the research. It is revealed that most of the studies focus on inclusive education, the digital divide, social inclusion, online learning, and the implication of inclusive education in digital transformation. Although studies expose inclusive education in digital transformation, most of these have 0.20 quality criteria, showing an intensified need to extend the existing body of knowledge. It is shown that the vast majority of inclusive education aligns with the institution’s inclusive education vision and purpose. Concerning financing, it is difficult to find sponsors among non-governmental organizations to support the institution’s inclusive education-related material, equipment, and security needs, and Ministry of National Education funding is essential. There is a need to improve the inclusive education competencies of administrators and teachers, and in-service training should be provided. Self-improvement opportunities of administrators and teachers of the institution are significantly inadequate and should be improved.
