Title: Post-treatment disinfection technologies for sustainable removal of antibiotic residues and antimicrobial resistance bacteria from hospital wastewater
Authors: Adhena Ayaliew Werkneh, Md. Aminul Islam
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e15360
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4363678044

Abstract:
The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified antimicrobial resistance bacteria and its spread as one of the most serious threats to public health and the environment in the twenty-first century. Different treatment scenarios are found in several countries, each with their own regulations and selection criteria for the effluent quality and management practices of hospital wastewater. To prevent the spread of disease outbreaks and other environmental threats, the development of sustainable treatment techniques that remove all antibiotics and antimicrobial resistant bacteria and genes should be required. Although few research based articles published focusing this issues, explaining the drawbacks and effectiveness of post-treatment disinfection strategies for eliminating antibiotic residues and antimicrobial resistance from hospital wastewater is the reason of this review. The application of conventional activated sludge (CAS) in large scale hospital wastewater treatments poses high energy supply needs for aeration, capital and operational costs. Membrane bioreactors (MBR) have also progressively replaced the CAS treatment systems and achieved better treatment potential, but membrane fouling, energy cost for aeration, and membrane permeability loss restrict their performance at large scale operations. In addition, the membrane process alone doesn't completely remove/degrade these micropollutants; as a substitute, the pollutants are being concentrated in a smaller volume, which requires further post-treatment. Therefore, these drawbacks should be solved by developing advanced techniques to be integrated into any of these or other secondary wastewater treatment systems, aiming for the effective removal of these micropollutants. The purpose of this paper is to review the performances of post-treatment disinfection technologies in the removal of antibiotics, antimicrobial resistant bacteria and their gens from hospital wastewater. The performance of advanced disinfection technologies (such as granular and powered activated carbon adsorption, ozonation, UV, disinfections, phytoremediation), and other integrated post-treatment techniques are primarily reviewed. Besides, the ecotoxicology and public health risks of hospital wastewater, and the development, spreading and mechanisms of antimicrobial resistant and the protection of one health are also highlighted.
