Title: E-Learning Services to Achieve Sustainable Learning and Academic Performance: An Empirical Study
Authors: Mohammad Mahtab Alam, Naim Ahmad, Quadri Noorulhasan Naveed, Ayyub Patel, Mohammed Abohashrh, Mohammed Abdul Khaleel
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13052653
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3134851618

Abstract:
E-Learning has proven to be the only resort as a replacement of traditional face-to-face learning methods in the current global lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. Academic institutions across the globe have invested heavily into E-Learning and the majority of the courses offered in traditional classroom mode have been converted into E-Learning mode. The success of E-Learning initiatives needs to be ensured to make it a sustainable mode of learning. The objective of the current study is to propose a holistic E-Learning service framework to ensure effective delivery and use of E-Learning Services that contributes to sustainable learning and academic performance. Based on an extensive literature review, a proposed theoretical model has been developed and tested empirically. The model identifies a broad range of success determinants and relates them to different success measures, including learning and academic performance. The proposed model was validated with the response from 397 respondents involved with an E-Learning system in the top five public universities in the southern region of Saudi Arabia through the Partial Least Squares regression technique using SmartPLS software. Five main factors (Learner’s Quality, Instructor’s Quality, Information’s Quality, System’s Quality and Institutional Quality) were identified as a determinant of E-Learning service performance which together explains 48.7% of the variance of perceived usefulness of ELS, 71.2% of the variance of use of the E-Learning system. Perceived usefulness of ELS and use of ELS together explain 70.6% of learning and academic performance of students. Hence the framework will help achieve the sustainable and successful adoption of E-Learning services.
