Title: Mapping Industry 4.0 Enabling Technologies into United Nations Sustainability Development Goals
Authors: Mohammed M. Mabkhot, Pedro Ferreira, Antonio Maffei, Primož Podržaj, Maksymilian Mądziel, Dario Antonelli, Michele Lanzetta, José Barata, Eleonora Boffa, Miha Finžgar, Łukasz Paśko, Paolo Minetola, Riccardo Chelli, Sanaz Nikghadam-Hojjati, Xi Vincent Wang, Paolo C. Priarone, Francesco Lupi, Paweł Litwin, Dorota Stadnicka, Niels Lohse
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13052560
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3133537817

Abstract:
The emerging of the fourth industrial revolution, also known as Industry 4.0 (I4.0), from the advancement in several technologies is viewed not only to promote economic growth, but also to enable a greener future. The 2030 Agenda of the United Nations for sustainable development sets out clear goals for the industry to foster the economy, while preserving social well-being and ecological validity. However, the influence of I4.0 technologies on the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) has not been conclusively or systematically investigated. By understanding the link between the I4.0 technologies and the SDGs, researchers can better support policymakers to consider the technological advancement in updating and harmonizing policies and strategies in different sectors (i.e., education, industry, and governmental) with the SDGs. To address this gap, academic experts in this paper have investigated the influence of I4.0 technologies on the sustainability targets identified by the UN. Key I4.0 element technologies have been classified to enable a quantitative mapping with the 17 SDGs. The results indicate that the majority of the I4.0 technologies can contribute positively to achieving the UN agenda. It was also found that the effects of the technologies on individual goals varies between direct and strong, and indirect and weak influences. The main insights and lessons learned from the mapping are provided to support future policy.
