Title: A double-crosslinked nanocellulose-reinforced dexamethasone-loaded collagen hydrogel for corneal application and sustained anti-inflammatory activity
Authors: Maria Xeroudaki, Mehrdad Rafat, Petros Moustardas, Anthony Mukwaya, Shideh Tabe, Marco Bellisario, Beatrice Peebo, Neil Lagali
Year: 2023
Venue: Acta Biomaterialia
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2023.10.020
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387826304

Abstract:
In cases of blinding disease or trauma, hydrogels have been proposed as scaffolds for corneal regeneration and vehicles for ocular drug delivery. Restoration of corneal transparency, augmenting a thin cornea and postoperative drug delivery are particularly challenging in resource-limited regions where drug availability and patient compliance may be suboptimal. Here, we report a bioengineered hydrogel based on porcine skin collagen as an alternative to human donor corneal tissue for applications where long-term stability of the hydrogel is required. The hydrogel is reinforced with cellulose nanofibers extracted from the Ciona intestinalis sea invertebrate followed by double chemical and photochemical crosslinking. The hydrogel is additionally loaded with dexamethasone to provide sustained anti-inflammatory activity. The reinforced double-crosslinked hydrogel after drug loading maintained high optical transparency with significantly improved mechanical characteristics compared to non-reinforced hydrogels, while supporting a gradual sustained drug release for 60 days in vitro. Dexamethasone, after exposure to crosslinking and sterilization procedures used in hydrogel production, inhibited tube formation and cell migration of TNFα-stimulated vascular endothelial cells. The drug-loaded hydrogels suppressed key pro-inflammatory cytokines CCL2 and CXCL5 in TNFα-stimulated human corneal epithelial cells. Eight weeks after intra-stromal implantation in the cornea of 12 New-Zealand white rabbits subjected to an inflammatory suture stimulus, the dexamethasone-releasing hydrogels suppressed TNFα, MMP-9, and leukocyte and fibroblast cell invasion, resulting in reduced corneal haze, sustained corneal thickness and stromal morphology, and reduced overall vessel invasion. This collagen-nanocellulose double-crosslinked hydrogel can be implanted to treat corneal stromal disease while suppressing inflammation and maintaining transparency after corneal transplantation. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: To treat blinding diseases, hydrogel scaffolds have been proposed to facilitate corneal restoration and ocular drug delivery. Here, we improve on a clinically tested collagen-based scaffold to improve mechanical robustness and enzymatic resistance by incorporating sustainably sourced nanocellulose and dual chemical-photochemical crosslinking to reinforce the scaffold, while simultaneously achieving sustained release of an incorporated anti-inflammatory drug, dexamethasone. Evaluated in the context of a corneal disease model with inflammation, the drug-releasing nanocellulose-reinforced collagen scaffold maintained the cornea's transparency and resisted degradation while suppressing inflammation postoperatively. This biomaterial could therefore potentially be applied in a wider range of sight-threatening diseases, overcoming suboptimal administration of postoperative medications to maintain hydrogel integrity and good vision.
