Title: STARD1 promotes NASH-driven HCC by sustaining the generation of bile acids through the alternative mitochondrial pathway
Authors: Laura Conde de la Rosa, Carmen García‐Ruiz, Carmen G. Vallejo, Anna Baulies, Susana Núñez, María J. Monte, José J.G. Marı́n, Lucía Baila-Rueda, Ana Cenarro, Fernando Civeira, Josep Fuster, Juan Carlos García‐Valdecasas, Joana Ferrer, Michael Karin, Vicent Ribas, José C. Fernández‐Checa
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of Hepatology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhep.2021.01.028
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3124041059

Abstract:
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Besides their physiological role in bile formation and fat digestion, bile acids (BAs) synthesised from cholesterol in hepatocytes act as signalling molecules that modulate hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Trafficking of cholesterol to mitochondria through steroidogenic acute regulatory protein 1 (STARD1) is the rate-limiting step in the alternative pathway of BA generation, the physiological relevance of which is not well understood. Moreover, the specific contribution of the STARD1-dependent BA synthesis pathway to HCC has not been previously explored. METHODS: STARD1 expression was analyzed in a cohort of human non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)-derived HCC specimens. Experimental NASH-driven HCC models included MUP-uPA mice fed a high-fat high-cholesterol (HFHC) diet and diethylnitrosamine (DEN) treatment in wild-type (WT) mice fed a HFHC diet. Molecular species of BAs and oxysterols were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Effects of NASH-derived BA profiles were investigated in tumour-initiated stem-like cells (TICs) and primary mouse hepatocytes (PMHs). RESULTS: mice. Incubation of TICs or PMHs with a mix of BAs mimicking this profile stimulated expression of genes involved in pluripotency, stemness and inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: The study reveals a previously unrecognised role of STARD1 in HCC pathogenesis, wherein it promotes the synthesis of primary BAs through the mitochondrial pathway, the products of which act in TICs to stimulate self-renewal, stemness and inflammation. LAY SUMMARY: Effective therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is limited because of our incomplete understanding of its pathogenesis. The contribution of the alternative pathway of bile acid (BA) synthesis to HCC development is unknown. We uncover a key role for steroidogenic acute regulatory protein 1 (STARD1) in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis-driven HCC, wherein it stimulates the generation of BAs in the mitochondrial acidic pathway, the products of which stimulate hepatocyte pluripotency and self-renewal, as well as inflammation.
