Title: Bridging the gap between smart cities and sustainability: Current practices and future trends
Authors: Qinhuan Gu, Michael C.P. Sing, Marcus Jefferies, Sittimont Kanjanabootra
Year: 2025
Venue: Cities
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cities.2025.105799
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4407429674

Abstract:
As smart cities expand rapidly due to urbanization, economic growth, and political support, concerns around sustainability have emerged. There is a lack of supporting frameworks that describe the interactions and behaviors of key variables facilitating the sustainability of smart cities. This study aims to formulate a conceptual framework linking smart cities and sustainability through a systematic literature review. A review was conducted which yielded extensive insights into sustainability in smart cities. Out of the 2596 articles examined, 82 focus on smart cities and sustainability. A bibliometric analysis was performed to identify the authorship and affiliation of selected publications, followed by a content analysis offering a detailed assessment of the studies. First, the literature review revealed a robust connection between smart cities and sustainability, as illustrated through a network visualization diagram. Second, the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) theory was employed to elucidate crucial elements of smart cities and their relationships with sustainability. Finally, a conceptual framework was formulated to explain the principal factors promoting the sustainability of smart cities. The findings have significant managerial and strategic implications for the advancement of smart cities and suggest potential areas for further research in exploring sustainability within smart cities. • Systematic review of 2596 articles linking smart city initiatives to sustainability. • A framework of six smart city dimensions to better understand sustainability factors. • Integration of sustainability in smart cities enhances resilience, efficiency, and quality of life. • Strategic implications for smart city development and areas for future research.
