Title: Geography Education for Promoting Sustainability in Indonesia
Authors: Nabila Nurul Hawa, Sharifah Zarina Syed Zakaria, Muhammad Rizal Razman, Nuriah Abd Majid
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13084340
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3154989363

Abstract:
Education for the environment and sustainable development is the one important thing for being studied. At formal school in Indonesia, it was integrated into the subject matter like social science, natural science, geography, or biology. The study about geography education for promoting sustainability had not been thoroughly done in Indonesia. Therefore, this study examined and investigated articles about geography learning and sustainability in Indonesia from 2010 to 2020. The materials were searched through the Garuda and ERIC application, by using keywords related to geography education. It was selected to published articles in journals indexed by Scopus and Sinta. The data were analyzed by a qualitative method with a content analysis approach. The foci of analysis are topics of sustainability elements, learning methods and models, learning media and resources, and students’ assessment in geography learning. All of these were investigated in concern to their relationships and achievements to sustainable development goals (SDGs). As a result, the topics of geography education in Indonesia have contained three main elements of sustainability, namely environment which the most stated, then social, and economic. The learning model and method that was mostly used was outdoor learning with contextual method. The learning media that mostly mentioned were maps, while the learning resources were local wisdom. Aspects of students’ assessment that mostly studied in geography education for promoting sustainability were students’ knowledge, attitude, and skills. Overall, this study has shown that the topics related to sustainability elements contained in the articles on geography education in Indonesia includes their learning components.
