Title: Achieving sustainable healthcare through deprescribing
Authors: Danijela Gnjidic, Minna Johansson, Dina Muscat Meng, Barbara Farrell, Aili Langford, Emily Reeve
Year: 2022
Venue: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.ed000159
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4300982278

Abstract:
Globally, healthcare systems are challenged with providing appropriate care to patients with complex care needs, multiple chronic conditions (multimorbidity) and multiple medications (polypharmacy). Multimorbidity is the rule rather than the exception in most healthcare interactions in primary and secondary care. But primary research, and therefore evidence synthesis and guidelines typically focus on the single‐morbidity population, providing little real‐world guidance to patients and clinicians in dealing with this complexity. As a result, there is a 'pandemic' of overtreatment with polypharmacy and potentially inappropriate medication use in frail, older adults, and people with multimorbidity. A recent report found that approximately 10% of all medications are overprescribed.[1] This places a significant burden on patients and healthcare services through preventable medication‐related harm, resulting in considerable costs to healthcare systems internationally. In the era of evidence‐based medicine, particularly in recent years, there has been a great interest in utilizing deprescribing research to reduce overtreatment and overprescribing and mitigate medication‐related harm. Deprescribing is defined as the process of identifying and reducing or discontinuing medications in which existing or potential harms outweigh potential benefits within the context of an individual patient's care goals, function, values, and preferences.[2] A Cochrane Library Special Collection on deprescribing, Achieving sustainable healthcare through deprescribing of unnecessary medications: making sense of the evidence provides a summary of Cochrane Reviews related to deprescribing. In putting together this collection, we highlighted reviews that focus on the potential benefits and harms of deprescribing specific medications; interventions to achieve deprescribing of certain medication classes in a specific condition or population; and interventions that include deprescribing activities aimed at reducing polypharmacy or improving appropriateness of medication use overall. The Special Collection highlights a wide scope of research into deprescribing. In some reviews, the deprescribing group involved abrupt withdrawal, tapering to complete withdrawal, or dose reduction.[3] Other reviews assessed rapid withdrawal (tapering period of three months or less) versus slow withdrawal (tapering period of more than three months),[4] and some investigated co‐interventions to assist deprescribing (such as cognitive behavioural therapy).[5] Not all of the included reviews used the term 'deprescribing'. This is not surprising as deprescribing is still an emerging term and research field. While many of the identified reviews focused on medications that are commonly overprescribed, such as benzodiazepines and antipsychotics, it was encouraging to see reviews studying other medication classes, such as antiepileptics,[4] immunosuppressants,[6] and tumour necrosis factor‐blocking agents.[7] The findings of the reviews were mixed, with some reporting no evidence of an effect of deprescribing on clinical outcomes (e.g. withdrawal of antihypertensives in older people on all‐cause mortality),[3] others reporting no change or a benefit in clinical outcomes (e.g. withdrawal of antipsychotics for behavioural and psychological symptoms in people with dementia),[8] and some reporting worsening in clinical outcomes (e.g. withdrawal of immunosuppressant therapy and clinical relapse of Crohn's disease).[6] Furthermore, across all reviews, the certainty of evidence was low or very low for most outcomes. This may have implications for clinical practice guidelines as clinicians may have low confidence in the certainty of evidence that informs recommendations, thereby hindering the implementation of deprescribing recommendations in practice. Research in this field remains hampered by the methodological challenges limiting evidence synthesis.[9] For example, there are inconsistencies in the definition of 'deprescribing' and how interventions and outcomes are reported in trials, which limits outcome synthesis across studies. Should 'successful deprescribing' be defined as complete cessation, tapering, dose reduction or even attempted withdrawal? How should deprescribing be captured: trial dropouts, need to restart therapy, average dose reduction? The process of deprescribing (including how potentially inappropriate medications are identified, communication with the patient and other relevant healthcare professionals) as well as the specific method of withdrawal (abrupt versus tapered) are often poorly reported in primary studies. This lack of detail in studies may be due to the need to individualize the deprescribing approach based on an individual's clinical characteristics, needs and preferences. However, the lack of reporting can confuse and complicate efforts to synthesize the evidence and inform clinical practice. A common recommendation across reviews was the need for inclusion of outcomes that are important to patients and clinicians (e.g. quality of life) and better capturing of the nature and timing of adverse drug withdrawal reactions (to distinguish them from return of condition or relapse), adverse drug withdrawal events, and adverse drug reactions (to capture the benefits of deprescribing). Additionally, reviews highlighted the lack of standardization of outcomes. It is encouraging to see efforts to identify recommendations and establish a framework to standardize the reporting of outcomes in deprescribing research.[10] This work established a conceptual model designed to assist in interpreting the relationship between medication changes and clinical outcomes. Other priorities for future research identified in the Special Collection included: ensuring that populations in studies reflect real‐world populations; having longer follow‐up periods; ensuring that the approach to deprescribing in trials is compatible with what can be achieved in practice; investigating which patients are least likely to relapse after deprescribing; and using a non‐inferiority approach rather than classical superiority analysis. Despite the challenges and limitations of existing research, the systematic reviews in the Special Collection are important to the deprescribing field. The field is often criticized for having 'no evidence', yet these reviews often find a considerable amount of prior research, some of it dating back to the 1970s. While all included reviews concluded that further research is needed, this existing evidence can provide some guidance for clinical practice and a strong base for future research. There is a unique opportunity for the deprescribing research field to work collaboratively with Cochrane Sustainable Healthcare. Polypharmacy is growing and will continue to increase with the ageing population, putting pressure on healthcare systems. Additionally, de‐implementation science is likely to play a part in translation of both deprescribing and low‐value healthcare evidence into practice.[11] Therefore, there is a clear link to ensuring sustainable healthcare. It is likely that deprescribing and other fields related to sustainability (e.g. overdiagnosis) may face similar barriers in practice, and methodological challenges in research and synthesis of evidence. The next steps should focus on the research and development of universally accepted standards, definitions, and checklists. Moving forward, a broad collaboration between stakeholders in the evidence ecosystem (clinicians, patients, researchers and policy makers) is needed to tackle unnecessary and harmful treatments.
