Title: Comparative Issues of Metal-Ion Batteries toward Sustainable Energy Storage: Lithium vs. Sodium
Authors: Atiyeh Nekahi, Mehrdad Dorri, Mina Rezaei, Mohamed Djihad Bouguern, Anil Kumar Madikere Raghunatha Reddy, Xia Li, Sixu Deng, Karim Zaghib
Year: 2024
Venue: Batteries
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries10080279
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401326123

Abstract:
In recent years, batteries have revolutionized electrification projects and accelerated the energy transition. Consequently, battery systems were hugely demanded based on large-scale electrification projects, leading to significant interest in low-cost and more abundant chemistries to meet these requirements in lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). As a result, lithium iron phosphate (LFP) share has increased considerably due to lower cost and higher safety compared to conventional nickel and cobalt-based chemistries. However, their fast-growing share is affected by updated chemistries, where cheaper systems like sodium-ion batteries (SIBs) are becoming more attractive. SIBs also benefited from the greener, more ethical, and evenly distributed elemental resources. SIBs are fast approaching market thanks to mature LIB’s technology and manufacturing scalability using existing Li-ion gigafactories. Additionally, SIBs can be adapted to other emerging technologies, including Li-ion batteries and silicon-based anodes, influencing projections for their broader use. However, despite the lower cost and abundance of sodium chemistries compared to lithium ones, limited manufacturing capacity discourages material suppliers from increasing production, which restricts the supply chain, raises costs, and diminishes Na battery manufacturing. Here, we aim to provide an overview of the progress of SIBs in gaining market share from LIBs. We first reviewed LIB and SIB histories, developments, and market share. Then, we analyzed the offered chemicals in battery components, their resources and supplies, material demand, and supply chain. The commercialization of each system was investigated in addition to the challenges related to energy density, environmental impact, sustainability, and safety. If all these concerns are addressed properly, LIBs and SIBs could potentially offer a more affordable, safer, and sustainable choice for the global energy storage outlook, particularly in short-range electric vehicles and stationary grid storage.
