Title: Sustainable Development of Port Economy Based on Intelligent System Dynamics
Authors: Guoyi Xiu, Zexu Zhao
Year: 2021
Venue: IEEE Access
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2021.3051065
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3119228104

Abstract:
With the development of economic globalization, international trade competition is increasingly intensified. As an important hub of waterway transportation, the sustainable economic development of ports has an important impact on the economic development of the entire country. Therefore, the research on the sustainable development of port economy has been paid more and more attention by everyone, but the current results are not ideal. This paper studies the sustainable development of port economies based on networked smart sensor technologies and system dynamics. First, according to the construction principles of the sustainable development index system, combined with the actual situation of the port economy, the evaluation index system layer of the sustainable development of the port economy is divided into four sub-systems: population, environment, resources and economy. A system dynamics model for the sustainable development of the port economy will be constructed and its sensitivity will be analyzed. Then, the above system dynamics model is combined with the optimized K-means algorithm, and the K-means algorithm is used to quickly calculate the required data in the system dynamics model to form an intelligent system dynamics model for the sustainable development of port economy. Finally, this article takes a certain port economy sustainable development giant system as an example, and implements a sustainable development strategy based on the idea of the coordinated development of population, environment, resources and economy. Run the intelligent system dynamics model for the sustainable development of port economy constructed in this research to simulate the dynamics of each subsystem. Experimental results show that in the next 20 years, the total population, number of employed population and employment ratio of the port city will continue to increase. After 2025, the emissions of the Exhaust have been declining year by year, the total amount of resources has been continuously reduced, and the utilization rate of resources can be increased to 80.01%. The growth rate of GDP in 20 years is as high as 18.75%, the ratio of the secondary and tertiary industries has changed, and the tertiary industry has become the dominant one. Therefore, the sustainable development system dynamics model of the port economy based on intelligent algorithms and sensor technology can effectively predict the future economic trend, help adjust strategies and further promote the sustainable development of the port economy.
