Title: Willingness to Pay in Tourism and Its Influence on Sustainability
Authors: Precious Chikezie Ezeh, Kaitano Dube
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su162310630
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4404999932

Abstract:
Financial support for environmental causes is more urgent than ever before. Thus, understanding consumer willingness to pay (WTP) for tourism is vital for policymakers, businesses, and researchers. This bibliometric study examined the trend of research on willingness to pay and tourism using 428 articles published in the Scopus indexed database between 1994 and 2023. The articles were extracted using the keywords “Willingness to pay tourism”. A Microsoft Excel sheet was used in the descriptive analysis, and a VOSviewer version 1.6.20 was used for the citation and co-occurrence analysis. The study found that willingness to pay is a complex aspect of environmental economics and tourism behaviour that is shaped by various aspects. Amongst other things, willingness to pay is shaped by aspects such as tourist biogeography, amongst others is the level of environmental awareness, environmental sensitivity, and education. In many respects, it is shaped by demographic factors such as age, gender, income bracket, and area of origin. Even though the major thrust of willingness to pay was anchored on sustainability and environmental protection, recent events in the mold of climate change, the COVID-19 pandemic, and technological innovation have played major roles in shaping tourists’ behaviour. Given the emerging thrust and focus, there is a need to respond to geographic knowledge gaps in tourism hotspots to understand how this will shape tourism sustainability from a Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) perspective going forward. In doing so, it will be critical to ensure continued fostering and understanding of how tourists’ willingness to pay for tourism destinations can lead to better design, marketing, and managed services to create memorable experiences that drive consumer loyalty.
