Title: Mathematical Modeling of Driving Forces of an Electric Vehicle for Sustainable Operation
Authors: Anubhav Agrawal, Ranbir Singh, Nagendra Kumar, Vijay Prakash Singh, Majed A. Alotaibi, Hasmat Malik, Fausto Pedro Garcı́a Márquez, Mohammad Asef Hossaini
Year: 2023
Venue: IEEE Access
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2023.3309728
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386265790

Abstract:
Increasing greenhouse gases & air pollution are a global threat. Global forums are aggressively emphasizing on reducing the dependence on non-renewable resources. Battery Electric vehicle are among the initial initiative to reduce dependency on fossil fuels, and this demands more research to understand the energy requirements of a vehicle under different driving conditions. The performance of an Electric Vehicle depends on varying drive conditions and the Power Electronic Controller is primarily responsible for its sustainable operation. In this paper, a novel mathematical model is proposed to analyze the performance of an electric vehicle under different driving conditions. The model is simulated at different driving speeds keeping other longitudinal, lateral, and vertical parameters fixed. Rolling resistance forces, aerodynamic drag force, gradient force, total driving force, driving torque, and power requirements at different speeds have been calculated under standard driving conditions. The rolling resistance increases by 2.16 times with a change in the vehicle speed from 40 kmph to 120 kmph. The aerodynamic drag force increases ten times with a 10-degree gradient. The battery operating temperature is critical in vehicular performance, a hybrid Pneumatic-Liquid Thermal Management System is proposed to maintain battery operating temperature. Performance of the proposed model is simulated and found to be in line with the existing standards. This study concludes that road conditions, tyre pressure, velocity of travel, wind velocity, and temperature significantly influence the performance of an electric vehicle.
