Title: User Experience and Sustainability of 3D Printing in Dentistry
Authors: Tamás Hegedüs, Patrik Kreuter, Aron Attila Kismarczi-Antalffy, Tamás Demeter, Dorottya Bányai, Á Végh, Zoltán Géczi, Péter Hermann, Michael Payer, Ákos Zsembery, Ahmad Al-Hassiny, Khaled Mukaddam, Valentin Herber, Norbert Jakse, Dániel Végh
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph19041921
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4211007577

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: 3D printing is a rapidly developing technology in the healthcare industry and in dentistry. Its application clearly shows that this area of digital dentistry has potential for everyday usage across all fields, including prosthodontics, orthodontics, maxillofacial surgery, and oral implantology. However, despite gaining ground, there is a lack of information about how specialists (dentists and dental technicians) use additive technology. Our research group aimed to investigate the impact of social media on additive manufacturing technology among dental specialists and their everyday usage of 3D printing. METHODS: This paper investigated specialists' everyday usage of 3D printers via an online survey (Google Forms). The survey questions aimed to discover the number of 3D printers used, the accessibility of the devices, the annual cost, and the design programs. Since specialists tend to build online communities on social media, we circulated our study questionnaire using our profiles on LinkedIn, Facebook, and Instagram platforms during our research. RESULTS: = 23) also completed our survey. The participants had an average of 3.8 years (±0.7) of experience in the 3D printing field, and owned a total of 405 printing devices (3.6 on average/person). CONCLUSIONS: The impact of social media on this research field is growing increasingly. Hence, we support specialists in joining virtual communities on professional platforms. This article intended to provide a practical overview, feedback, and direction for dentists interested in 3D printing technology. From our survey, we can conclude that additive technology is broadening dental applications and the services that we can provide for our patients.
