Title: Experimental Analysis of Geopolymer Concrete: A Sustainable and Economic Concrete Using the Cost Estimation Model
Authors: Manvendra Verma, Kamal Upreti, Prashant Vats, Sandeep Singh, Prashant Singh, Nirendra Dev, Durgesh Kumar Mishra, Basant Tiwari
Year: 2022
Venue: Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/7488254
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4302760180

Abstract:
Geopolymer concrete is sustainable, economical, eco-friendly, durable, and high-strength concrete. Geopolymer is a name for the bonding that occurs during the binding of materials in alkaline conditions. Due to the presence of high silica and alumina content, pozzolanic materials could be used as binding materials in the GPC. This research aims to check the sustainability and cost analysis of both GPC and conventional concrete with their physical, chemical, and mechanical properties. The experimental investigation analyzes both GPC and OPC concrete’s physical, chemical, and mechanical properties for the M30 mix design and analyzes the concrete’s cost and sustainability. The experimental investigation shows that the setting time, density, and drying shrinkage of conventional concrete are higher than the GPC. The compressive strength of the GPC and OPC concretes both showed similar trends at the 28-day strength, but the initial three-day strength of the GPC concrete was much higher than the OPC concrete. The splitting tensile strength and flexural strength of the GPC specimens are slightly higher than the OPC concrete mix specimens. The OPC concrete’s elastic modulus is slightly higher than the GPC mix design, whereas the Poisson’s ratio of the OPC concrete is slightly lower than the GPC specimens. The GPC specimens have higher thermal stability up to 800°C. The GPC utilizes industrial solid waste like fly ash and slag as a binding material and is activated by an alkaline solution containing NaOH and Na2SiO3 in the design mix. Therefore, the GPC has less embodied energy compared to the OPC concrete. The cost of the GPC at a bulk level reduced the cost of up to 40% of the OPC concrete.
