Title: Tilapia aquaculture systems in Egypt: Characteristics, sustainability outcomes and entry points for sustainable aquatic food systems
Authors: Cristiano Rossignoli, Timothy Manyise, Kelvin Mashisia Shikuku, Ahmed Nasr-Allah, Eric Brako Dompreh, Patrik J. G. Henriksson, Rodolfo Dam Lam, Denise P. Lozano Lazo, Nhuong Van Tran, A.J. Roem, Alaa Badr, Ashraf S. Sbaay, Roberta Moruzzo, Alexander Tilley, Harrison Charo‐Karisa, Alexandros Gasparatos
Year: 2023
Venue: Aquaculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aquaculture.2023.739952
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385389188

Abstract:
The future demand for fish and other aquatic foods requires the sustainable intensification of related production systems. However, policy and investment decisions for the sustainable intensification of aquaculture systems are hindered by lack of benchmarking data on their actual sustainability performance, which often result in poorly developed and implemented interventions that ignore potential sustainability trade-offs. This is a reality in many of the leading developing country aquaculture producers like Egypt. In this study we analyzed farm-level data from 402 aquaculture producers in Egypt, to characterize and benchmark the performance of tilapia production systems against key sustainability outcomes using a combination of ordinary least square regressions, simultaneous quantile regressions and propensity score matching analytical techniques. We focussed on how the production characteristics and practices of different tilapia production systems intersect with economic, food security, and environmental outcomes that cover multiple dimensions of sustainability. We found that differences in these production characteristics and practices were significantly associated with the sustainability performance of tilapia production systems. In particular, our results show that yields in monoculture (10,460.5 ton/ha) were significantly higher than in polyculture (8404.7 ton/ha). Furthermore, despite the generally positive economic, food security, and environmental outcomes of several of the studied systems, some trade-offs emerge both between and within these sustainability dimensions.
