Title: Identifying Challenges for Clients in Adopting Sustainable Public Cloud Computing
Authors: Muhammad Kaleem Khan, Fasee Ullah, Muhammad Imran, Jahangir Khan, Arshad Khan, Ahmed Saeed AlGhamdi, Sultan S. Alshamrani
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14169809
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4292367418

Abstract:
Sustainable Cloud Computing is the modern era’s most popular technology. It is improving daily, offering billions of people sustainable services. Currently, three deployment models are available: (1) public, (2) private, and (3) hybrid cloud. Recently, each deployment model has undergone extensive research. However, relatively little work has been carried out regarding clients’ adoption of sustainable public cloud computing (PCC). We are particularly interested in this area because PCC is widely used worldwide. As evident from the literature, there is no up-to-date systematic literature review (SLR) on the challenges clients confront in PCC. There is a gap that needs urgent attention in this area. We produced an SLR by examining the existing cloud computing models in this research. We concentrated on the challenges encountered by clients during user adoption of a sustainable PCC. We uncovered a total of 29 obstacles that clients confront when adopting sustainable PCC. In 2020, 18 of the 29 challenges were reported. This demonstrates the tremendous threat that PCC still faces. Nineteen of these are considered critical challenges to us. We consider a challenge a critical challenge if its occurrence in the final selected sample of the paper is greater than 20%. These challenges will negatively affect client adoption in PCC. Furthermore, we performed three different analyses on the critical challenges. Our analysis may indicate that these challenges are significant for all the continents. These challenges vary with the passage of time and with the venue of publication. Our results will assist the client’s organization in understanding the issue. Furthermore, it will also help the vendor’s organization determine the potential solutions to the highlighted challenges.
