Title: Recent Advances, Challenges, Opportunities, Product Development and Sustainability of Main Agricultural Wastes for the Aquaculture Feed Industry – A Review
Authors: Zulhisyam Abdul Kari, Suniza Anis Mohamad Sukri, Nor Dini Rusli, Khairiyah Mat, M.B. Mahmud, Nik Nur Azwanida Zakaria, Wendy Wee, Noor Khalidah Abdul Hamid, Muhammad Anamul Kabir, Nik Shahman Nik Ahmad Ariff, Shahriman Zainal Abidin, Muhammad Khairulanam Zakaria, Khang Wen Goh, Martina Irwan Khoo, Hien Van Doan, Albaris B. Tahiluddin, Lee Seong Wei
Year: 2023
Venue: Annals of Animal Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.2478/aoas-2022-0082
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4319996639

Abstract:
Abstract Million tonnes of agricultural waste are generated annually worldwide. Agricultural wastes possess similar profiles to the main products but are lower in quality. Managing these agricultural wastes is costly and requires strict regulation to minimise environmental stress. Thus, these by-products could be repurposed for industrial use, such as alternative resources for aquafeed to reduce reliance on fish meal and soybean meal, fertilisers to enrich medium for growing live feed, antimicrobial agents, and immunostimulatory enhancers. Furthermore, utilising agricultural wastes and other products can help mitigate the existing environmental and economic dilemmas. Therefore, transforming these agricultural wastes into valuable products helps sustain the agricultural industry, minimises environmental impacts, and benefits industry players. Aquaculture is an important sector to supply affordable protein sources for billions worldwide. Thus, it is essential to explore inexpensive and sustainable resources to enhance aquaculture production and minimise environmental and public health impacts. Additionally, researchers and farmers need to understand the elements involved in new product development, particularly the production of novel innovations, to provide the highest quality products for consumers. In summary, agriculture waste is a valuable resource for the aquafeed industry that depends on several factors: formulation, costing, supply, feed treatment and nutritional value.
