Title: Roadmap on established and emerging photovoltaics for sustainable energy conversion
Authors: James C. Blakesley, Ruy S. Bonilla, Marina Freitag, Alex M. Ganose, Nicola Gasparini, Pascal Kaienburg, George Koutsourakis, Jonathan D. Major, Jenny Nelson, Nakita K. Noel, Bart Roose, Jae Sung Yun, Simon Aliwell, P.P. Altermatt, Tayebeh Ameri, Virgil Andrei, Ardalan Armin, Diego Bagnis, Jenny Baker, Hamish Beath, Mathieu Bellanger, Philippe Berrouard, Jochen Blumberger, Stuart A. Boden, Hugo Bronstein, Matthew J. Carnie, Chris Case, Fernando A. Castro, Yi-Ming Chang, Elmer Chao, Tracey M. Clarke, Graeme Cooke, Pablo Docampo, K. Durose, James R. Durrant, Marina R. Filip, Richard H. Friend, Jarvist M. Frost, Elizabeth A. Gibson, Alexander J. Gillett, Pooja Goddard, Severin N. Habisreutinger, Martin Heeney, Arthur D. Hendsbee, Louise C. Hirst, M. Saïful Islam, K. D. G. Imalka Jayawardena, Michael B. Johnston, M. Kauer, Jeff Kettle, Ji‐Seon Kim, D.A. Lamb, David G. Lidzey, Jihoo Lim, Roderick C. I. MacKenzie, N. J. Mason, Iain McCulloch, Keith P. McKenna, Sebastian B. Meier, Paul Meredith, Graham E. Morse, John D. Murphy, Chris Nicklin, Paloma Ortega-Arriaga, Thomas Österberg, Jay B. Patel, А. R. Peaker, Moritz Riede, Martyn Rush, James W. Ryan, David O. Scanlon, Peter J. Skabara, Franky So, Henry J. Snaith, Ludmilla Steier, Jarla Thiesbrummel, Alessandro Troisi, Craig Underwood, Karsten Walzer, Trystan Watson, John M. Walls, Aron Walsh, Lucy D. Whalley, Benedict Winchester, Samuel D. Stranks, Robert L. Z. Hoye
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Physics Energy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1088/2515-7655/ad7404
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401898834

Abstract:
Abstract Photovoltaics (PVs) are a critical technology for curbing growing levels of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, and meeting increases in future demand for low-carbon electricity. In order to fulfill ambitions for net-zero carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2 eq) emissions worldwide, the global cumulative capacity of solar PVs must increase by an order of magnitude from 0.9 TW p in 2021 to 8.5 TW p by 2050 according to the International Renewable Energy Agency, which is considered to be a highly conservative estimate. In 2020, the Henry Royce Institute brought together the UK PV community to discuss the critical technological and infrastructure challenges that need to be overcome to address the vast challenges in accelerating PV deployment. Herein, we examine the key developments in the global community, especially the progress made in the field since this earlier roadmap, bringing together experts primarily from the UK across the breadth of the PVs community. The focus is both on the challenges in improving the efficiency, stability and levelized cost of electricity of current technologies for utility-scale PVs, as well as the fundamental questions in novel technologies that can have a significant impact on emerging markets, such as indoor PVs, space PVs, and agrivoltaics. We discuss challenges in advanced metrology and computational tools, as well as the growing synergies between PVs and solar fuels, and offer a perspective on the environmental sustainability of the PV industry. Through this roadmap, we emphasize promising pathways forward in both the short- and long-term, and for communities working on technologies across a range of maturity levels to learn from each other.
