Title: Integrating the United Nations sustainable development goals into higher education globally: a scoping review
Authors: Ángela Amorós Molina, Daniel Helldén, Tobias Alfvén, Maria Niemi, Karin Leander, Helena Nordenstedt, Carita Rehn, Rawlance Ndejjo, Rhoda K. Wanyenze, Olivia Biermann
Year: 2023
Venue: Global Health Action
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/16549716.2023.2190649
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4362473213

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: In 2015, the United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, including the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Higher education institutions have a role in raising awareness and building skills among future professionals for implementing the SDGs. This review describes how the SDGs have been integrated into higher education globally. OBJECTIVES: Determine how have the SDGs been integrated into higher education globally. Describe the differences in the integration of the SDGs in higher education across high-income countries (HICs) and low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). METHODS: Following a scoping review methodology, we searched Medline, Web of Science, Global Health, and Educational Resources Information Center, as well as websites of key institutions including universities, identifying peer-reviewed articles and grey literature published between September 2015 and December 2021. RESULTS: We identified 20 articles and 38 grey literature sources. Since 2018, the number of publications about the topic has been increasing. The SDGs were most frequently included in bachelor-level education and disciplines such as engineering and technology; humanities and social sciences; business, administration, and economics. Methods of integrating the SDGs into higher education included workshops, courses, lectures, and other means. Workshops and courses were the most frequent. The methods of integration varied in high-income countries compared to low- and middle-income countries. High-income countries seemed to follow a more academic approach to the SDGs while low- and middle-income countries integrate the SDGs with the aim to solve real-world problems. CONCLUSION: This study provides examples of progress in integrating the SDGs into higher education. Such progress has been skewed to high-income countries, bachelor-level initiatives, and certain disciplines. To advance the integration of the SDGs, lessons learned from universities globally should be shared broadly, equitable partnerships formed, and students engaged, while simultaneously increasing funding for these processes.
