Title: Promoting sustainable and human-centric industry 5.0: a thematic analysis of emerging research topics and opportunities
Authors: S. Rajumesh
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Business and Socio-economic Development
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/jbsed-10-2022-0116
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385253914

Abstract:
Purpose The study aims to explore the overall growth trend, top publishing countries, co-authorship and author keywords in the field of Industry 5.0. Design/methodology/approach This study presents the outcomes of a bibliometric analysis conducted using VOSviewer software. The analysis retrieved data from the Scopus database, including citations, co-authors, keywords, bibliometric coupling and co-occurrence. Findings The findings reveal a significant increase in publications and citations related to Industry 5.0 in recent years. China, the USA and India emerge as the leading countries driving research in this field. The co-authorship analysis indicates limited collaboration among authors, with only 48 out of 354 authors being linked through co-authorship. Through co-occurrence analysis, the investigation identifies the most frequently occurring keywords in the research, with “Industry 5.0” and “Industry 4.0” being the most frequently co-occurring keywords. The bibliographic coupling analysis identifies six clusters of research themes. Research limitations/implications The study solely relies on data gathered from the Scopus database for analysis on a specific date. Therefore, data from other databases collected at different times may yield different observations and findings. Practical implications This study enhances the knowledge of professionals and academia in Industry 5.0, enabling the professionals to efficiently and sustainably manage the sector. Originality/value The bibliometric analysis presented in this study provides valuable insights into the contributions made by authors, keywords and co-authors to the field of Industry 5.0. Additionally, the thematic analysis summarized in this study is a novel contribution to the field.
