Title: Sustainable Non-Conventional Concrete 3D Printing—A Review
Authors: Narinder Singh, Francesco Colangelo, Ilenia Farina
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151310121
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382458731

Abstract:
In this review article, system materials for concrete 2D printing have been discussed, along with the various other aspects that are connected to sustainable construction. The article consists of an introduction giving the background of manufacturing that started almost two decades ago, including the non-conventional methods of building structures. It has been seen that there are various stainable materials in the field of 3D printing in construction, as the conversion of construction to 3D printing reduces waste generation. Further in this article, the cost comparison between conventional and non-conventional construction methods has been discussed, including the effectiveness of 3D printing; 3D printing is very effective in the sense that it requires the precise use of machinery and construction material. Full-scale 3D printing has also been seen in the building sector, but only to some extent. Some of the components of bridges, and even some of small bridges, have been constructed using 3D printing and ultra-high-performance concrete. Since there are various advantages to 3D building, there are also various disadvantages to 3D printing, such as how much it costs and finding the materials that are suitable for 3D printing, which might increase the cost. Polymers have also been used in 3D printing construction since polymers have a very long lifespan, and polymers may increase the strength of the final product by reinforcing the aggregate. Additionally, this technology gives us the opportunity to use various materials together for construction, such as recycled aggregates and geopolymers, along with concrete and cement, which might pose some challenges but are being used nowadays. A major concern with this technology is its impact on the labor market. Since in traditional construction huge amounts of man hours are required, concerns have been raised about the inclusion of this technology, as this might affect employment. Since most of the work will be done by machines, the need for labor will reduce. These are some of the issues that need attention. Finally, this article discusses the novelty and future scope of 3D printing in the construction sector, and concludes by outlining the scope of potential developments for 3D printing concrete by taking into account sustainability.
