Title: Importance of Environmental Education in the Context of Natural Sustainability
Authors: Karel Llópiz Guerra, Daline Urdanivia Ruiz, Ronald M. Hernández, Valia Venegas-Mejía, Jadira Del Rocío Jara Nunayalle, Karla Robalino Sánchez
Year: 2024
Venue: Natural and Engineering Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.28978/nesciences.1473461
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399175475

Abstract:
Anthropogenic activities are causing degradation in the environment at an alarming pace, which in turn causes a host of environmental challenges including acid rain, rising sea levels, incorrect monsoons, and global warming. There are many great things about science and technology, but we are paying an extremely high "price" for them. Industrialization alone is not enough to sustain economic growth. Scientific knowledge and technological advancement can only play a supporting role in the movement toward a more sustainable global environment; they cannot provide the solution on their own. Therefore, individuals need to be empowered with vital information and education if we are to attain an acceptable degree of global environmental sustainability. It is feasible to bring about tremendous changes in the public's thinking via educational institutions since they are the locations where society is most closely encountered. Encouraging learner awareness of ambient conditions in their area and their active engagement in fixing local issues makes environmental education a useful preventative measure to save youngsters living in polluted regions. The impact of environmental education on environmental sustainability is the focus of this study. The literature provides essential understanding into the ways in which Environmental Education (EE) might encourage pro-environmental behaviour via studies that concentrate on the link between various experiences and learning outcomes. In accordance with the importance of environmental education for sustainable development, this research aims to conduct a survey on the effectiveness of an intervention called EESD (Environmental Education Suitability Development) in improving students' environmental knowledge.
