Title: A Study on the Impact of Sustainable Leadership and Core Competencies on Sustainable Competitive Advantage in the Information Technology (IT) Sector
Authors: Nazir Taj Nisha, Nishad Nawaz, Jayakumar Mahalakshmi, Vijayakumar Gajenderan, Islam Hasani
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116899
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281947245

Abstract:
The study is focused on assessing the impact of sustainable leadership and core competencies on sustainable competitive advantage in the information technology sector. The data are sourced from primary and secondary data. The primary data are sourced from IT sector employees. The secondary information is sourced from earlier publications related to sustainable leadership, sustainable competitive advantage, and core competencies. The primary data were collected through the field survey method, although some were collected via an online mode. The sample size was 297. The study used a simple stratified random sampling technique. The study results described a significant effect of sustainable leadership on sustainable competitive advantage. Sustainable leadership improves the prospects of associations in terms of their creation, constant advancement, sustained competitive edge, and long-term success. Sustainable leadership is a wellspring of gaining the upper hand for associations. Sustainable leadership benefits associations, development, consistent improvement, a supported upper hand, and long haul achievement. The study also found that the core competencies significantly influence the competitive advantage. The discoveries of the current study have significant ramifications for customers, top administration, and policymakers. The practitioners of IT companies are urged to cultivate an inventive and open correspondence climate in their associations dependent on existing logical discoveries. Likewise, they could utilize the current outcomes as a benchmark for gradually expanding their qualities and limits, which may prompt better natural productivity.
