Title: Harnessing nanotechnology for sustainable agriculture: From seed priming to encapsulation
Authors: Shivani Mahra, Sneha Tripathi, Kavita Tiwari, Samarth Sharma, Samarth Sharma, Sobhitha Mathew, Vivek Kumar, Shivesh Sharma, Shivesh Sharma
Year: 2024
Venue: Plant Nano Biology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.plana.2024.100124
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4405175642

Abstract:
The pursuit of sustainable agricultural system has ignited a quest for innovative approaches to enhance crop productivity while ensuring ecological equilibrium. Plants, being sensitive to alterations in their surroundings, must evolve complex defense systems against these changes, particularly in the case of abiotic stress, which would otherwise diminish plant productivity. Nano-encapsulation and seed nanopriming are two avant- grade approaches that have the potential to alter the sustainability of agroecosystems. Seed nanopriming involves the strategic application of nanoparticles (NPs) to seeds for crop improvement. Applying NPs through seed priming is a novel and economical method that enhances germination of seeds and plant growth by stimulating physiological processes in plants & offering resilience towards diverse stressors. While on the other hand smart agriculture has reduced reliance on conventional agrochemicals, nano-encapsulation of bioactive compounds offers a complementary approach by providing a long-lasting and controlled release of essential agrochemicals or compounds by using different types of nanocarrier. This review provides insights into recent developments in agriculture, focusing on the opportunities that are associated with the use of nanotechnology for seed nanopriming. In addition, it highlights the materials and technologies that are employed in encapsulating the bioactive compound with NPs. In addition to offering an in-depth review of the benefits and drawbacks of each technique, this study explores the potential of nano-encapsulation and nanopriming to increase agricultural output. It goes into more detail on the technologies' economic worth, emphasizing how they might raise crop yields and profitability. The paper addresses both the potential risks, such as toxicity and long-term consequences on ecosystems, as well as the environmental benefits to present a fair picture of the use of nanotechnology in agriculture. • Tailored nanoparticles can be used to pack in nutrients and prep seeds with nanotech in eco-friendly farming. • Seed nano-priming entails the precise application of nanoparticles to seeds, improving crop performance. • Controlled and targeted release of bioactive compounds can be possible by encapsulation.
