Title: Sustainable green energy transition in Saudi Arabia: Characterizing policy framework, interrelations and future research directions
Authors: Md Tasbirul Islam, Amjad Ali
Year: 2024
Venue: Next Energy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nxener.2024.100161
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400513475

Abstract:
By 2060, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) aims to achieve net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, targeting 50% renewable energy and reducing 278 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent annually by 2030 under Vision 2030. This ambitious roadmap focuses on economic diversification, global engagement, and enhanced quality of life. The electricity sector, with a 90 GW installed capacity as of 2020, is central to decarbonization, aiming for a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030. Saudi Energy Efficiency Centre’s Energy Efficiency Action Plan aims to reduce power intensity by 30% by 2030, while the NEOM project showcases a 4 GW green hydrogen facility, reflecting the country’s commitments to sustainability and technological innovation. Despite being the largest oil producer and user, Saudi Arabia must align with international CO 2 emission reduction targets. Currently, there is no state-of-the-art energy policy framework to guide a sustainable energy transition. In the academic literature, there is also lack of effort in developing comprehensive energy policy framework. This study provides a thorough and comprehensive analysis of the entire energy industry, spanning from the stage of production to consumption, incorporating sustainability factors into the wider discussion on energy policy. It establishes a conceptual framework for the energy policy of Saudi Arabia that corresponds with Vision 2030. A total of hundred documents (e.g., 25 original articles and 75 industry reports) were retrieved from Google Scholar, Web of Science Core Collection Database, and Google Search and then analyzed. Results showed that for advancing the green energy transition, areas such as strategies for regional and cross-sectoral collaboration, adoption of international models, human capital development and public engagement, technological innovation, and research; and resource conservation, environmental protection, and climate change should move forward exclusively from an energy policy perspective. This article's main contribution is developing a comprehensive and conceptual policy framework for Saudi Arabia's sustainable green energy transition aligned with Vision 2030. The framework integrates social, economic, and environmental criteria and provides critical policy implications and research directions for advancing energy policy and sustainable practices in the country.
