Title: Delineation of aquifer promising zones and protective capacity for regional groundwater development and sustainability
Authors: Joseph Omeiza Alao, Mumeen Adebayo Yusuf, Mohammed Shettima Nur, Abdulkareem Muhammad Nuruddeen, Muhammad Sani Ahmad, Emmanuel Jaiyeoba
Year: 2023
Venue: SN Applied Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s42452-023-05371-2
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4367059855

Abstract:
Abstract Water security is the central mission of the sustainable development goals. The demand for potable and clean water has skyrocketed due to frequent borehole failures and population expansion, which requires adequate groundwater resource management strategies. Identifying groundwater potential zone, overburden protective index capacity and installations of alternative/artificial storage support mechanisms for water security and sustainability under the growing water challenge and demand is critical. This study identifies; (i) aquifer promising zones (ii) aquifer protective capacity through geophysical investigation and suggests (iii) improving aquifer recovery management strategy as the top three targets for groundwater development. An electric resistivity technique was applied to acquire a total of sixty (60) vertical electrical sounding points with Schlumberger arrays. The study indicates the resistivity layer of the aquifer unit ranges from 21 to 294 Ωm, while the aquifer layer thickness values spread from 8 to 59 m and the overburden thickness overlays the aquifer unit extends from 3 to 20 m. The deeper aquifer zones were encountered between 30 and 59 m, which could be suitable for groundwater development, and the shallow aquifer occurs between 8 and 14 m, which is not encouraging for groundwater development and may be susceptible to surface contaminations. However, for water security and sustainability, multiple boreholes should be sited at the delineated aquifer promising zone where the aquifer is fractured and occurs within a depth of 30 m and above. The weathered/fractured units constitute the regional aquifer units, which are largely responsible for the groundwater potential. The hydraulic conductivity of the regional aquifer was estimated to vary between 0.337 and 10.62 m/day, which invariably enhances the aquifer recovery processing. Groundwater quality and the risk of surface contamination were examined through overburden protective index capacity.
