Title: Air Pollutants Removal Using Biofiltration Technique: A Challenge at the Frontiers of Sustainable Environment
Authors: Karamveer Sheoran, Samarjeet Singh Siwal, Deepanshi Kapoor, Nirankar Singh, Adesh K. Saini, Walaa F. Alsanie, Vijay Kumar Thakur
Year: 2022
Venue: ACS Engineering Au
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acsengineeringau.2c00020
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281893944

Abstract:
Air pollution is a central problem faced by industries during the production process. The control of this pollution is essential for the environment and living organisms as it creates harmful effects. Biofiltration is a current pollution management strategy that concerns removing odor, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and other pollutants from the air. Recently, this approach has earned vogue globally due to its low-cost and straightforward technique, effortless function, high reduction efficacy, less energy necessity, and residual consequences not needing additional remedy. There is a critical requirement to consider sustainable machinery to decrease the pollutants arising within air and water sources. For managing these different kinds of pollutant reductions, biofiltration techniques have been utilized. The contaminants are adsorbed upon the medium exterior and are metabolized to benign outcomes through immobilized microbes. Biofiltration-based designs have appeared advantageous in terminating dangerous pollutants from wastewater or contaminated air in recent years. Biofiltration uses the possibilities of microbial approaches (bacteria and fungi) to lessen the broad range of compounds and VOCs. In this review, we have discussed a general introduction based on biofiltration and the classification of air pollutants based on different sources. The history of biofiltration and other mechanisms used in biofiltration techniques have been discussed. Further, the crucial factors of biofilters that affect the performance of biofiltration techniques have been discussed in detail. Finally, we concluded the topic with current challenges and future prospects.
