Title: A sectoral perspective on the sustainable growth of SMEs. Empirical research in the V4 countries.
Authors: Khurram Ajaz Khan, Mohammed Anam Akhtar, Rohit Kumar Vishwakarma, Hung Cuong Hoang
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Business Sectors
DOI: https://doi.org/10.62222/cvfw6962
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4390936096

Abstract:
Research background: The present article concerns small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), their attitudes towards sustainable growth, and their social and environmental impact in V4 nations. In the current economic situation, it is imperative to understand the SMEs' perception towards sustainability aspects, not only about understanding but also believing they are significant for the firms' sustainability. Purpose of the article: The paper aimed to define the important attributes of SMEs' sustainable growth and compare the attitudes within the three most important business sectors in the V4 countries. Methods: The empirical research, which surveyed SMEs' attitudes, was conducted in June 2022 in the V4 countries. Data collection was carried out by the external agency MNFORCE using the "Computer Assisted Web Interviewing" (CAWI Research Method). The questionnaire could be completed by the owner or the top manager of the SME. The sample consisted of the Visegrad countries' three most important business sectors. The total number of respondents in the sample was 995. The statistical hypothesis was tested through descriptive statistics and Z-score at α = 5% significance level. Findings &amp; Value added: The empirical research showed that SMEs in the V4 countries (within the sample set of the three most important business sectors) are concerned with the issue of sustainable growth in business because they not only understand the concept but also agree that sustainable growth should pursue not only the economic interests of firms but also the positive impact on the social system and environmental aspects. SMEs in the sample confirmed that they care about their business's social and environmental impacts. The results of the empirical research confirmed that there were no statistically significant differences in the positive responses of the respondents.
