Title: Application of nanotechnology and proteomic tools in crop development towards sustainable agriculture
Authors: Augustine Innalegwu Daniel, Lizex Hüsselmann, Oluwatosin Kudirat Shittu, Arun Gokul, Marshall Keyster, Ashwil Klein
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Crop Science and Biotechnology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s12892-024-00235-6
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392168145

Abstract:
Abstract The increase in global population which translates to increased demand for food called for urgent attention from key players and policy makers in agricultural sector. Also, the effects of climate change and its consequent biotic and abiotic stresses in plants has greatly affect the sustainability of agriculture and production of food. These challenges require novel and sustainable approaches to improve the quality and yield of crops. The vast application of nanoparticles in different fields of study is attributed to their distinct chemical and physical characteristics. However, in agriculture, their application is limited because of their safety concern. Currently, research is tailored to study the response of plants to various nanoparticle treatments; however, these studies are inconclusive due to limited knowledge on the mechanisms of plant–nanoparticle interactions. Recently, studies on nanobiotechnology have taken a new dimension from preliminary bioassay experiments to more complex, research-oriented studies using various omics tools. Changes in protein expression caused by plant–nanoparticle interaction at any developmental stages, or tissue types may be investigated using suitable proteomics techniques. This review discussed the various applications of nanotechnology and proteomic tools in plant growth and development. Plant–nanoparticle interactions and the application of nanoparticles and proteomic tools in genetic engineering of plants to attain agricultural sustainability and food safety are also discussed. Informative and thorough understanding of plant–nanoparticle interaction will serve as a blueprint that will enable plant scientist and genetic engineers to develop plant biomarkers and explore their potential application for crop improvement.
