Title: Unveiling the roles, mechanisms and prospects of soil microbial communities in sustainable agriculture
Authors: Kelvin Kiprotich, Esther K. Muema, Clabe Wekesa, Stephen Tavasi Ndombi, John Muoma, Dennis O. Omayio, Dennis Ochieno, Hamond Motsi, Sipho Mncedi, Janet Tarus
Year: 2025
Venue: Discover Soil.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s44378-025-00037-4
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4407630357

Abstract:
Abstract Soil hosts diverse microbial communities including bacteria, fungi, archaea, protozoans and nematodes among others, which are fundamental to sustainable agriculture and drive essential processes that underpin soil fertility, plant health, and ecosystem resilience. They promote plant growth through mechanisms like nitrogen fixation, phosphorus solubilization, production of growth-promoting substances, enhancement of nutrient uptake, improvement of soil structure and detoxification of harmful substances. Recently, there has been increasing interest in utilizing microorganisms to improve soil health and boost plant growth and efficiency, despite limited understanding of microbial diversity, microbe-plant interactions, and translating laboratory findings to field conditions. This interest is driven by the urgent need to feed the growing global population, placing pressure on arable land to produce high-quality yields. Conventionally, synthetic fertilizers have been extensively used to provide nutrients, promote plant growth, and increase crop productivity. Although synthetic fertilizers have revolutionized agriculture since the green revolution, their overuse has significantly harmed soil health, and reduced crop productivity. This review synthesizes the current knowledge on the mechanisms by which soil microbes influence sustainable agricultural practices, with a focus on soil nutrient cycling and plant–microbe interactions. We discuss the functions and mechanisms of important microbial groups, such as nitrogen-fixing bacteria, phosphorus-solubilizing bacteria (PSB), and fungi. Furthermore, we discuss the factors that influence soil microbial communities and highlight gaps in future research to maximize their potential use in agriculture. Understanding the significance and key mechanisms of microbial communities increases the potential of harnessing soil microbes as vital contributors to soil health and sustainable agriculture.
