Title: Dental restorative materials containing quaternary ammonium compounds have sustained antibacterial action
Authors: J.D.B. Featherstone
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the American Dental Association
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adaj.2022.09.006
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306955812

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: This narrative review addresses dental restorative materials with sustained antibacterial action, especially those containing quaternary ammonium compounds. Secondary caries occurs around restorations, causing further loss of mineral and breakdown of the restoration. Lesions adjacent to restorations account for more than 40% of needed restorations. Restorative materials with antibacterial properties will potentially solve this problem. TYPES OF STUDIES REVIEWED: Several groups are researching composite restorative materials that incorporate antibacterial agents. These agents are mostly exhausted over time. Newer studies involve materials that incorporate antibacterial microparticles that remain active and do not leach out. RESULTS: One such antibacterial agent, quaternary ammonium coupled with inorganic silica into minute particles (QASi), has been studied in the laboratory and in humans. QASi particles incorporated into dental materials retain their antibacterial action over time without leaching or loss of activity. A clinical in situ study in humans using dental composite containing QASi resulted in highly significantly less demineralization in the adjacent enamel than the control composite material. CONCLUSIONS AND PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: Dental restorative materials that contain QASi have sustained antibacterial properties, have mechanical properties comparable to those of presently marketed materials, and have been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration. Clinical studies have shown that composites incorporating QASi have the potential to markedly reduce the occurrence of caries around restorations. Because caries around restorations is a major problem, restorative materials with sustained antibacterial properties will have an important effect in reducing secondary caries around restorations.
