Title: Renewable Energy for Sustainable Development Goal of Clean and Affordable Energy
Authors: Sunil Kumar, Kavita Rathore
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Materials Manufacturing and Sustainable Technologies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.56896/ijmmst.2023.2.1.001
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4367841533

Abstract:
Energy demand has grown rapidly with increase of global population. Surge in energy consumption is mainly driven by both economic and technological advancement. The conventional fossil fuels sources (coal, oil, and natural gas) and nuclear energy are depleting in nature known as non-renewables. Burning of fossil fuels contribute significant amount of greenhouse gases emissions, which negatively impact the global ecosystem. Access to energy is essential for modern civilization, yet we must seek alternative energy sources to protect our planet by controlling the emissions. Capturing harmful Green House Gases (GHG) with the help of advanced technologies helps reduce the risk to some extent. However, alternative energy sources must be renewable and sustainable. Renewable energy resources vary by geographical location and include solar, wind, hydro, and bioenergy, among others. The most appealing primary benefits of renewable energy include its low environmental impact, consistent availability even in challenging weather conditions, and its effectiveness in reducing pollution. Additionally, renewable energy contributes to economic growth, fosters job creation, and enhances energy security. However, there are challenges associated with renewable energy storage, which scientists are actively working to address. In addition, public opposition for the installation of renewable energy infrastructure also create difficulties. Increasing public education and awareness regarding the advantages of renewable energy can assist increasing the acceptability, which can further help policymakers in making well-informed decisions. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of diverse renewable energy sources and their current advancements in development. This review further finds that effective government policies aimed at reducing carbon emissions, coupled with improved technology and storage solutions, the adoption of renewable energy will expand significantly in the coming years.
