Title: The Microbial Connection to Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Kalaivani Nadarajah, Nur Sabrina Natasha Abdul Rahman
Year: 2023
Venue: Plants
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/plants12122307
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4380685123

Abstract:
Microorganisms are an important element in modeling sustainable agriculture. Their role in soil fertility and health is crucial in maintaining plants' growth, development, and yield. Further, microorganisms impact agriculture negatively through disease and emerging diseases. Deciphering the extensive functionality and structural diversity within the plant-soil microbiome is necessary to effectively deploy these organisms in sustainable agriculture. Although both the plant and soil microbiome have been studied over the decades, the efficiency of translating the laboratory and greenhouse findings to the field is largely dependent on the ability of the inoculants or beneficial microorganisms to colonize the soil and maintain stability in the ecosystem. Further, the plant and its environment are two variables that influence the plant and soil microbiome's diversity and structure. Thus, in recent years, researchers have looked into microbiome engineering that would enable them to modify the microbial communities in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the inoculants. The engineering of environments is believed to support resistance to biotic and abiotic stressors, plant fitness, and productivity. Population characterization is crucial in microbiome manipulation, as well as in the identification of potential biofertilizers and biocontrol agents. Next-generation sequencing approaches that identify both culturable and non-culturable microbes associated with the soil and plant microbiome have expanded our knowledge in this area. Additionally, genome editing and multidisciplinary omics methods have provided scientists with a framework to engineer dependable and sustainable microbial communities that support high yield, disease resistance, nutrient cycling, and management of stressors. In this review, we present an overview of the role of beneficial microbes in sustainable agriculture, microbiome engineering, translation of this technology to the field, and the main approaches used by laboratories worldwide to study the plant-soil microbiome. These initiatives are important to the advancement of green technologies in agriculture.
