Title: A cool climate perspective on grapevine breeding: climate change and sustainability are driving forces for changing varieties in a traditional market
Authors: Reinhard Töpfer, Oliver Trapp
Year: 2022
Venue: Theoretical and Applied Genetics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00122-022-04077-0
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4225502760

Abstract:
A multitude of diverse breeding goals need to be combined in a new cultivar, which always forces to compromise. The biggest challenge grapevine breeders face is the extraordinarily complex trait of wine quality, which is the all-pervasive and most debated characteristic. Since the 1920s, Germany runs continuous grapevine breeding programmes. This continuity was the key to success and lead to various new cultivars on the market, so called PIWIs. Initially, introduced pests and diseases such as phylloxera, powdery and downy mildew were the driving forces for breeding. However, preconceptions about the wine quality of new resistant selections impeded the market introduction. These preconceptions are still echoing today and may be the reason in large parts of the viticultural community for: (1) ignoring substantial breeding progress, and (2) sticking to successful markets of well-known varietal wines or blends (e.g. Chardonnay, Cabernet Sauvignon, Riesling). New is the need to improve viticulture´s sustainability and to adapt to changing environmental conditions. Climate change with its extreme weather will impose the need for a change in cultivars in many wine growing regions. Therefore, a paradigm shift is knocking on the door: new varieties (PIWIs) versus traditional varieties for climate adapted and sustainable viticulture. However, it will be slow process and viticulture is politically well advised to pave the way to variety innovation. In contrast to the widely available PIWIs, competitive cultivars created by means of new breeding technologies (NBT, e.g. through CRISPR/Cas) are still decades from introduction to the market.
