Title: One-Year Sustained Cellular and Humoral Immunities in Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Convalescents
Authors: Jie Zhang, Hao Lin, Beiwei Ye, Min Zhao, Jianbo Zhan, Shaobo Dong, Yaxin Guo, Yingze Zhao, Min Li, Sai Liu, Hangjie Zhang, Wenling Xiao, Yuanyuan Guo, Can Yue, Danni Zhang, Mengjie Yang, Jing Zhang, Chuansong Quan, Weifeng Shi, Xinxue Liu, Peipei Liu, Yongzhong Jiang, Guizhen Wu, George F. Gao, William J. Liu
Year: 2021
Venue: Clinical Infectious Diseases
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciab884
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3203205744

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: The longitudinal antigen-specific immunity in COVID-19 convalescents is crucial for long-term protection upon individual re-exposure to SARS-CoV-2, and even more pivotal for ultimately achieving population-level immunity. We conducted this cohort study to better understand the features of immune memory in individuals with different disease severities at 1 year post-disease onset. METHODS: We conducted a systematic antigen-specific immune evaluation in 101 COVID-19 convalescents, who had asymptomatic, mild, moderate, or severe disease, through 2 visits at months 6 and 12 after disease onset. The SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies, comprising neutralizing antibody (NAb), immunoglobulin (Ig) G, and IgM, were assessed by mutually corroborated assays (ie, neutralization, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA], and microparticle chemiluminescence immunoassay [MCLIA]). Meanwhile, T-cell memory against SARS-CoV-2 spike, membrane, and nucleocapsid proteins was tested through enzyme-linked immunospot assay (ELISpot), intracellular cytokine staining, and tetramer staining-based flow cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG antibodies, and NAb, can persist among >95% of COVID-19 convalescents from 6 to 12 months after disease onset. At least 19/71 (26%) of COVID-19 convalescents (double positive in ELISA and MCLIA) had detectable circulating IgM antibody against SARS-CoV-2 at 12 months post-disease onset. Notably, numbers of convalescents with positive SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell responses (≥1 of the SARS-CoV-2 antigen S1, S2, M, and N proteins) were 71/76 (93%) and 67/73 (92%) at 6 and 12 months, respectively. Furthermore, both antibody and T-cell memory levels in the convalescents were positively associated with disease severity. CONCLUSIONS: SARS-CoV-2-specific cellular and humoral immunities are durable at least until 1 year after disease onset.
