Title: Microglial ERK-NRBP1-CREB-BDNF signaling in sustained antidepressant actions of (R)-ketamine
Authors: Wei Yao, Qianqian Cao, Shilin Luo, Lujuan He, Chun Yang, Jiaxu Chen, Qi Qi, Kenji Hashimoto, Ji‐chun Zhang
Year: 2021
Venue: Molecular Psychiatry
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41380-021-01377-7
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3216353063

Abstract:
(R,S)-ketamine elicits rapid-acting and sustained antidepressant actions in treatment-resistant patients with depression. (R)-ketamine produces longer-lasting antidepressant effects than (S)-ketamine in rodents; however, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying antidepressant actions of (R)-ketamine remain unknown. Using isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantification, we identified nuclear receptor-binding protein 1 (NRBP1) that could contribute to different antidepressant-like effects of the two enantiomers in chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model. NRBP1 was localized in the microglia and neuron, not astrocyte, of mouse medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). (R)-ketamine increased the expression of NRBP1, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (p-CREB)/CREB ratio in primary microglia cultures thorough the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation. Furthermore, (R)-ketamine could activate BDNF transcription through activation of CREB as well as MeCP2 (methyl-CpG binding protein 2) suppression in microglia. Single intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of CREB-DNA/RNA heteroduplex oligonucleotides (CREB-HDO) or BDNF exon IV-HDO blocked the antidepressant-like effects of (R)-ketamine in CSDS susceptible mice. Moreover, microglial depletion by colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) inhibitor PLX3397 blocked the antidepressant-like effects of (R)-ketamine in CSDS susceptible mice. In addition, inhibition of microglia by single i.c.v. injection of mannosylated clodronate liposomes (MCLs) significantly blocked the antidepressant-like effects of (R)-ketamine in CSDS susceptible mice. Finally, single i.c.v. injection of CREB-HDO, BDNF exon IV-HDO or MCLs blocked the beneficial effects of (R)-ketamine on the reduced dendritic spine density in the mPFC of CSDS susceptible mice. These data suggest a novel ERK-NRBP1-CREB-BDNF pathways in microglia underlying antidepressant-like effects of (R)-ketamine.
