Title: Metaversal sustainability: conceptualisation within the sustainable tourism paradigm
Authors: Tanja Mihalič
Year: 2024
Venue: Tourism Review
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/tr-09-2023-0609
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391536650

Abstract:
Purpose This paper aims to address the novel phenomenon of tourism in the metaverse and analyse possible scenarios that could influence the resilience of a sustainable tourism paradigm in response to this new phenomenon. Design/methodology/approach Based on Kuhn’s paradigmatic framework, this paper offers an innovative perspective for the integration of new theories and practise-relevant phenomena. It emphasises the relevance and commensurability of different paradigmatic dimensions and outlines the scenarios for the integration of metaversal sustainability. Findings The phenomenon of tourism in the metaverse of the 21st century poses a new challenge to the existing paradigm of sustainable tourism, which traditionally focuses on the economic and ecological sustainability of planet Earth’s physical environment. The adoption of a metaversal sustainability scenario for the virtual and mixed reality is key to a responsible implementation of the paradigm of sustainable tourism development that considers all its environments, whether fantastic or realistic. Research limitations/implications This study has its limitations, as metaversal tourism is still in the experimental phase. A more comprehensive understanding of the metaverse and its terminology is still evolving. There is potential to adapt the sustainable tourism paradigm to new technological environments if the metaverse is recognized as one in the future. Practical implications There are practical implications for tourism policy and practise. Tourism stakeholders need to adapt to the changing tourism landscape by recognising the metaverse as a viable environment committed to sustainable development. This will enable innovative strategies to govern, lead, promote and manage metaversal tourism and ensure that it is in line with the long-term goal of sustainability. Social implications The metaverse holds considerable potential for transforming social perception and behaviour. Integrating the metaverse into the sustainability pillars of the sustainable development paradigm implies a forward-looking approach that takes into account the dynamics of people’s evolving desires and preferences. This inclusion advocates for sustainable development in all environments in which people live and explore. Originality/value This research stands out for its pioneering role in advancing a sustainable tourism paradigm that goes beyond the traditional planetary dimensions. By examining the impact of tourism in the metaverse, it proposes a path towards a more holistic and future-oriented paradigm of sustainable tourism in both the physical and virtual worlds. The coining of the term “metaversal sustainability” contributes to the lexicon of paradigms for both tourism and societal sustainable development.
