Title: Sustained Mechanical Aspiration Thrombectomy for High Thrombus Burden Coronary Vessel Occlusion: The Multicenter CHEETAH Study
Authors: Santhosh Jay Mathews, Sahil A. Parikh, Willis Wu, D. Christopher Metzger, Jeffrey W. Chambers, Magdi Ghali, Michael James Sumners, Brian Kolski, Duane S. Pinto, Suhail Dohad
Year: 2023
Venue: Circulation Cardiovascular Interventions
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1161/circinterventions.122.012433
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321460912

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Poor myocardial reperfusion due to distal embolization and microvascular obstruction after percutaneous coronary intervention is associated with increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Prior trials have not shown a clear benefit of routine manual aspiration thrombectomy. Sustained mechanical aspiration may mitigate this risk and improve outcomes. The objective of this study is to evaluate sustained mechanical aspiration thrombectomy before percutaneous coronary intervention in high thrombus burden acute coronary syndrome patients. METHODS: This prospective study evaluated the Indigo CAT RX Aspiration System (Penumbra Inc, Alameda CA) for sustained mechanical aspiration thrombectomy before percutaneous coronary intervention at 25 hospitals across the USA. Adults presenting within 12 hours of symptom onset with high thrombus burden and target lesion(s) located in a native coronary artery were eligible. The primary end point was a composite of cardiovascular death, recurrent myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, or new or worsening New York Heart Association class IV heart failure within 30 days. Secondary end points included Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction thrombus grade, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction flow, myocardial blush grade, stroke, and device-related serious adverse events. RESULTS: From August 2019 through December 2020, a total of 400 patients were enrolled (mean age 60.4 years, 76.25% male). The primary composite end point rate was 3.60% (14/389 [95% CI, 2.0-6.0%]). Rate of stroke within 30 days was 0.77%. Final rates of Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction thrombus grade 0, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction flow 3, and myocardial blush grade 3 were 99.50%, 97.50%, and 99.75%, respectively. No device-related serious adverse events occurred. CONCLUSIONS: Sustained mechanical aspiration before percutaneous coronary intervention in high thrombus burden acute coronary syndrome patients was safe and was associated with high rates of thrombus removal, flow restoration, and normal myocardial perfusion on final angiography.
