Title: Discourses in Finnish forest policy: Cherry-picking or sustainability?
Authors: Niina Pietarinen, Teemu Harrinkari, Maria Brockhaus, Natalya Yakusheva
Year: 2022
Venue: Forest Policy and Economics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.forpol.2022.102897
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313479592

Abstract:
With the rise of the concept of a forest-based bioeconomy over the past decade, sustainability is simultaneously an underlying assumption and a key expectation. However, can we assume that a bioeconomy is sustainable simply because it emphasizes the use of forests as a renewable resource? And will a forest-based bioeconomy indeed lead to a more sustainable – and prosperous – Finnish society? In light of these questions, it is important to understand the relationship between Finnish forestry and sustainability as articulated in current and past forest policy documents. We ask how the concept of sustainability is framed and translated in forest policy objectives, and what ambitions are put forward when challenges and problems are defined, specific methods are proposed, and emphasis is given. Our findings indicate that although the language used in the policies generally refers to sustainability, the various dimensions of sustainability are not equally considered, with economic ambitions being particularly valued. There is a risk that a forest-based bioeconomy will simply continue forestry business-as-usual if current problematizations and proposed solutions reflected in forest policy remain unchallenged. Our aim is to provide a more nuanced understanding of possible opportunities and risks for sustainability linked to a forest-based bioeconomy as currently promoted in Finland and elsewhere. We do this by analysing the meta-discourses which have been present in Finnish forest policy documents over time. Furthermore, we identify and discuss possible trade-offs and their implications for Finnish forests and society in informing current and future forest policy reviews and increasing transparency.
