Title: Blockchain Traceability for Sustainability Communication in Food Supply Chains: An Architectural Framework, Design Pathway and Considerations
Authors: Shoufeng Cao, Henry Xu, Kim P. Bryceson
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151813486
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386607455

Abstract:
The increasing demand for sustainable and ethically sourced food products has highlighted the importance of effective sustainability communication within the food supply chain. Existing sustainability communication approaches encounter limitations such as a lack of standardised frameworks, information overload, greenwashing, and an absence of transparent reporting. These challenges hinder their effectiveness and reliability in communicating sustainability efforts and commitments to businesses and consumers in a food chain. Blockchain technology, with its transparent, traceable, verifiable, and immutable features, offers a promising solution to address these limitations and facilitate effective sustainability communication. This paper explores the benefits of applying blockchain traceability to enhance sustainability communication in food supply chains. Using the system architecture approach, this paper proposes a high-level architectural framework, which can navigate the design and development of a blockchain-enabled solution for food sustainability communication. To assist with the translation of the architectural framework into a tailored solution, this paper further presents an action design pathway and discusses the design considerations around organisation, technology, governance, cost, and the user interface. The discussions and insights offered by this study can guide system developers and business analysts in the design and development of industry-oriented solutions, helping them make informed decisions before and during the design process. This paper contributes to advancing and expanding blockchain applications with a particular focus on sustainability communication in food supply chains.
