Title: Plant microbiome structure and benefits for sustainable agriculture
Authors: Lidiane Figueiredo dos Santos, Fábio Lopes Olivares
Year: 2021
Venue: Current Plant Biology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpb.2021.100198
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3123832180

Abstract:
Plants are colonized by a multitude of micro-organisms, collectively called “microbiome,” and which play essential roles in the niches they inhabit. The potential of the microbiome, combined with the need to produce food more sustainably, makes its study promising. Despite the growing recognition of the vast functional ability of the native microbiota as an intricate component of the plant fitness, our understanding of how microbial communities are structured, and the intrinsic and environmental factors that can modulate microbial network is partial understood. In this review, we explore how research has characterized the microbiota of different plant niches and the methodological approaches that they have used to access this. We consider the impact of the plant’s genotype, interactions between microbial taxa, the influence of the agricultural practices, as well as the environmental conditions that influence the establishment and enrichment of micro-organisms with beneficial effects on plant growth, development, and health. Ultimately, we suggested a model route that converts current knowledge about microbiomes into a potential biotechnological product applied to agriculture systems. One proposed approach is the use of the driven factors that influence the microbiota community composition to stimulate its beneficial members. Some examples of these influential factors are the use of bioinoculants, proper agricultural practices, and certain environmental conditions. On the other hand, micro-organisms with critical roles in the microbiome can be isolated, formulated, and become a new biological product. Regardless of the approach to be used, innovations with the use of microbiomes represent the future of sustainable agriculture.
