Title: Sustainable smart city and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): A review
Authors: Z. R. M. Abdullah Kaiser, Apu Deb
Year: 2025
Venue: Regional Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsus.2025.100193
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4408969100

Abstract:
The rapid urbanization and increasing challenges are faced by cities globally, including climate change, population growth, and resource constraints. Sustainable smart city (also referred to as “smart sustainable city”) can offer innovative solutions by integrating advanced technologies to build smarter, greener, and more livable urban environments with significant benefits. Using the Web of Science (WoS) database, this study examined: (i) the mainstream approaches and current research trends in the literature of sustainable smart city; (ii) the extent to which the research of sustainable smart city aligns with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); (iii) the current topics and collaboration patterns in sustainable smart city research; and (iv) the potential opportunities for future research on the sustainable smart city field. The findings indicated that research on sustainable smart city began in 2010 and gained significant momentum in 2013, with China leading, followed by Italy and Spain. Moreover, 59.00% of the selected publications on the research of sustainable smart city focus on SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities). Bibliometric analysis outcome revealed that artificial intelligence (AI), big data, machine learning, and deep learning are emerging research fields. The terms smart city, smart cities, and sustainability emerged as the top three co-occurring keywords with the highest link strength, followed by frequently co-occurring keywords such as AI, innovation, big data, urban governance, resilience, machine learning, and Internet of Things (IoT). The clustering results indicated that current studies explored the theoretical foundation, challenges, and future prospects of sustainable smart city, with an emphasis on sustainability. To further support urban sustainability and the attainment of SDGs, the future research of sustainable smart city should explore the application and implications of AI and big data on urban development including cybersecurity and governance challenges.
