Title: Powering aircraft with 100 % sustainable aviation fuel reduces ice crystals in contrails
Authors: Raphael Märkl, Christiane Voigt, Daniel Sauer, Rebecca Dischl, Stefan Kaufmann, Theresa Harlaß, Valerian Hahn, Anke Roiger, Cornelius Weiß-Rehm, Ulrike Burkhardt, U. Schumann, Andreas Marsing, Monika Scheibe, Andreas Dörnbrack, Charles Renard, Maxime Gauthier, Peter Swann, Paul A. Madden, Darren Luff, Reetu Sallinen, Tobias Schripp, Patrick Le Clercq
Year: 2024
Venue: Atmospheric chemistry and physics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-24-3813-2024
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393221998

Abstract:
Abstract. Powering aircraft by sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs) is a pathway to reduce the climate impact of aviation by lowering aviation lifecycle CO2 emissions and by reducing ice crystal numbers and radiative forcing from contrails. While the effect of SAF blends on contrails has been measured previously, here we present novel measurements on particle emission and contrails from 100 % SAF combustion. During the ECLIF3 (Emission and CLimate Impact of alternative Fuels) campaign, a collaboration between the Deutsches Zentrum für Luft- und Raumfahrt (DLR), Airbus, Rolls-Royce, and Neste, the DLR Falcon 20 research aircraft performed in situ measurements following an Airbus A350-941 source aircraft powered by Rolls-Royce Trent XWB-84 engines in 1 to 2 min old contrails at cruise altitudes. Apparent ice emission indices of 100 % HEFA-SPK (hydro-processed esters and fatty acids–synthetic paraffinic kerosene) were measured and compared to Jet A-1 fuel contrails at similar engine and ambient ice-supersaturated conditions within a single flight. A 56 % reduction in ice particle numbers per mass of burned fuel was measured for 100 % HEFA-SPK compared to Jet A-1 under engine cruise conditions. The measured 35 % reduction in soot particle numbers suggests reduced ice activation by the low-sulfur HEFA fuel. Contrail properties are consistently modeled with a contrail plume model. Global climate model simulations for the 2018 fleet conservatively estimate a 26 % decrease in contrail radiative forcing and stronger decreases for larger particle reductions. Our results indicate that higher hydrogen content fuels as well as clean engines with low particle emissions may lead to reduced climate forcing from contrails.
