Title: The Impact of Proactive Environmental Strategy on Competitive and Sustainable Development of Organizations
Authors: Rizwan Raheem Ahmed, Dalia Štreimikienė, Xiaosong Zheng
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of Competitiveness
DOI: https://doi.org/10.7441/joc.2021.04.01
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4205323198

Abstract:
The purpose of this research is to evaluate the impact of proactive environmental strategy, competitive differentiation advantage &amp; cost-leadership competitive advantage for the competitive, sustainable development of an organization in terms of its performances, for instance, product strategy, production, process &amp; financial performances. We incorporated technological eco-innovation as a mediating factor &amp; corporate image as a moderator between exogenous &amp; endogenous variables. We have collected 798 responses from China, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam. For the data analyses, we employed a structural equation modeling-based multivariate approach and conditional process modeling. The novelty and significance of the undertaken study rested in multifaceted outcomes; for instance, the proactive environmental strategy, the competitive advantage of differentiation &amp; competitive advantage of cost leadership have a significant &amp; positive impact on the sustainable development of an organization in terms of its performances, for example, product strategic, production &amp; financial performances. The findings further demonstrate that technological eco-innovation as a mediating factor &amp; corporate image as a moderating factor played vital and significant influencers between exogenous and endogenous variables. Finally, the Toda- Yamamoto causality showed the two-ways directionality between exogenous &amp; endogenous variables. The outcomes have provided critical practical and societal implications for the industry and society. The companies may incorporate the environment as a cornerstone in short &amp; longterm strategies for sustainable development. On the other hand, organizations may provide an eco-friendly environment to society.
