Title: Corporate Social Responsibility, Green Human Resources Management, and Sustainable Performance: Is Organizational Citizenship Behavior towards Environment the Missing Link?
Authors: Saqib Yaqoob Malik, Yasir Hayat Mughal, Tamoor Azam, Yukun Cao, Zhifang Wan, Hongge Zhu, Ramayah Thurasamy
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13031044
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3121175994

Abstract:
The manufacturing sector is one of the major sources contributing towards economies as well as environmental pollution. Contributing to the theory of ability motivation opportunity theory, the aim of the current study was to investigate the mediating role of organizational citizenship behavior towards the environment on the relationship between green human resources management (green recruitment and selection, green training, green rewards, and green performance evaluation), corporate social responsibility, and sustainable performance (economic, social, and environmental performance). The quantitative survey research design was used in the current study and structured questionnaires were distributed for the collection of data. The cross-sectional data were collected from 150 firms. Sample of the study was consisted of HRM managers, directors. Total 200 questionnaires were distributed but 150 completed responses were received and analyzed. A structured questionnaire was used. For data analysis, smart partial least square structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was used. The measurement model and the structural model were developed and tested in the study. The measurement model aim was to investigate and establish reliabilities and validities of the instrument while to test hypotheses structural model was formulated/developed. Results revealed that the instrument was found reliable and valid; the instrument has met all standard criteria for average variance extracted, composite/construct reliability factor loadings, and alpha values. While structural models illustrated that all hypotheses are accepted. It is concluded from the results that organizational citizenship behavior towards the environment significantly mediated the relationship between corporate social responsibility and green human resource management practices. This implies that organizational citizenship behavior towards environment significantly effects sustainable performance. The originality of the current study lies in highlighting corporate social responsibility, green human resources management practices to enhance sustainable performance through organizational citizenship behavior towards environment.
