Title: Sustainable wastewater reuse for agriculture
Authors: Anastasis Christou, Vasiliki G. Beretsou, Iakovos C. Iakovides, Popi Karaolia, Costas Michael, Tarik Benmarhnia, Benny Chefetz, Erica Donner, Bernd Manfred Gawlik, Yunho Lee, Teik‐Thye Lim, Lian Lundy, Roberta Maffettone, Luigi Rizzo, Edward Topp, Despo Fatta‐Kassinos
Year: 2024
Venue: Nature Reviews Earth & Environment
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s43017-024-00560-y
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399388305

Abstract:
Effective management of water resources is crucial for global food security and sustainable development. In this Review, we explore the potential benefits and challenges associated with treated wastewater (TW) reuse for irrigation. Currently, 400 km3 yr−1 of wastewater is generated globally, but <20% is treated, and of that TW, only 2–15% is reused for irrigation depending on region. The main limitation of TW for irrigation is the inability of current treatment technologies to completely remove all micropollutants and contaminants of emerging concern, some of which have unknown impacts on crops, environment and health. However, advanced water treatment and reuse schemes, supported by water quality monitoring and regulations, can provide a stable water supply for agricultural production, as demonstrated in regions such as the USA and Israel. Such schemes could potentially serve a net energy source, as the embedded energy in wastewater exceeds treatment needs by 9 to 10 times. Agriculturally useful nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium could be also recovered and reused. TW reuse for irrigation could act as a major contributor to a circular economy and sustainable development, but the first steps will be funding and implementation of advanced and sustainable treatment technologies and social acceptance. Treated wastewater (TW) reuse for irrigation could alleviate water imbalances and boost food production in water-scarce regions, thus promoting global food and water security. This Review discusses the potential and challenges of widespread TW reuse for agriculture in a circular economy framework.
