Title: Second-Life Electric Vehicle Batteries for Home Photovoltaic Systems: Transforming Energy Storage and Sustainability
Authors: Md Tanjil Sarker, Mohammed Hussein Saleh Mohammed Haram, Siow Jat Shern, Gobbi Ramasamy, Fahmid Al Farid
Year: 2024
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en17102345
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396872441

Abstract:
Solar-based home PV systems are the most amazing eco-friendly energy innovations in the world, which are not only climate-friendly but also cost-effective solutions. The tropical environment of Malaysia makes it difficult to adopt photovoltaic (PV) systems because of the protracted rainy monsoon season, which makes PV systems useless without backup batteries. Large quantities of lithium-ion battery (LIB) trash are being produced by the electric vehicle (EV) sector. A total of 75% of the highest capacity levels have been discarded. By 2035, it is predicted that the wasted LIBs held as a result of expensive recycling and difficult material separation would carry up to 1200 GWh. An economical and sustainable option is offered by our study, which prototypes a replicated LIB pack that is incorporated into a PV home system. This study investigates the transformational power of second-life electric vehicle batteries (SLEVBs) when incorporated into home photovoltaic (PV) systems. The concept entails reusing existing electric vehicle batteries for stationary applications, offering a unique approach to extending the life of these batteries while meeting the growing need for sustainable domestic energy storage. The study looks at the technological feasibility, economic viability, and environmental effect of introducing SLEVBs into household PV systems, giving vital insight into their role in revolutionizing energy storage techniques and promoting sustainability. In comparison to the Lead–Acid Battery (LAB) system, the SLEVB system has a cheaper total cost of ownership, with savings of 12.62% compared with new LABs. A CO2 emission reduction of at least 20% is achieved by using the SLEVB system compared with LABs. Electricity can be provided in houses in rural areas where there is no electricity. As a result, the security and superiority of the life of rural residents will improve. It is anticipated that the suggested strategy will lower EV pricing, enabling EV adoption for M40 and B40 groups. Consequently, the Malaysian and worldwide EV business will remain viable.
