Title: Sharing Model in Circular Economy towards Rational Use in Sustainable Production
Authors: Dzintra Atstāja, Viktor Koval, Jānis Grasis, Iryna Kalina, Halyna Kryshtal, Інеса Міхно
Year: 2022
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en15030939
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4210243064

Abstract:
Changing business models is a topical issue in a pandemic. Recent research has shown that the search for environmentally friendly and sustainable solutions in various sectors has become relevant. The article aims to promote cooperation and adaptation of good practices between countries. Comparing the country’s history and economic situation and economic development and traditions can be seen as a precondition for success. The article examines the introduction of sharing economy and the creation of environment-friendly trends establishing a circular economy by minimizing the population’s expenses, online business growth, and accessibility of Internet technologies. The article explores the difference between the linear economic model and the circular model by adopting sharing and the efficient joint use of materials to enhance and assess sustainable development. Based on a combination of theoretical and practical research, the article explores the dynamic system and development model of sharing a circular economy. The new concept of circular economy does not promote the overproduction of new goods but the rational use of already produced ones, which significantly reduces the amount of waste generated at all stages of the product life cycle. Population groups by different income groups for sharing services are analysed. An analysis of the price characteristics of popular sharing products was used from data from Internet portals. One concludes that due to the increase in Internet users, especially mobile apps, and social networks, C2C sharing has become quite popular over the past years. Other areas also show positive development indicators but have less demand, affecting supply. Based on an in-depth study of the economic situation in Ukraine, the authors have critically chosen an industry to set as an example with the actual business situation. Therefore, three packages were created: pessimistic, standard and optimistic ones with different characteristics of implementing circular economic projects. The chosen method allows rational management decisions for attracting financing and sustainable solutions. The company’s business scenarios analysed in the article will allow to choose a system based on circular economy principles successfully.
