Title: Shifting towards optimized healthy and sustainable Dutch diets: impact on protein quality
Authors: Samantha N. Heerschop, Argyris Kanellopoulos, Sander Biesbroek, P. van ’t Veer
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Nutrition
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00394-023-03135-7
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4360601332

Abstract:
PURPOSE: To reduce the environmental impact of Western diets, a reduction of meat consumption and a substitution by plant-based protein sources is needed. This protein transition will affect the quantity and quality of dietary protein. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the protein adequacy of diets optimized for nutritional health and diet-related greenhouse gas emission (GHGE). METHODS: Data from 2150 adult participants of the Dutch National Food Consumption Survey were used, with diet assessed using two non-consecutive 24 h dietary recalls. Utilizable protein of current diets per day was based on meal composition and the Protein Digestibility-Corrected Amino Acid Score and was compared to protein requirements. Optimized diets were derived as linear combinations of current diets that minimized GHGE and maximized the Dutch Healthy Diet 2015 score, with/without constraints to keep dietary change within 33% of current consumption. Protein adequacy was evaluated in both current and optimized diets. RESULTS: In all age and gender strata, the healthiest diets had higher GHGE, the most sustainable diets had the lowest dietary quality, though higher than current diets, and protein adequacy remained sufficient. When limiting dietary change to 33% of current consumption, in the most promising trade-off diet GHGE was reduced by 12-16%. The current diet provided 1.4-2.2 times the required amount of utilizable protein. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that a realistic aim for the next decade might be to reduce diet-related GHGE to 12-16% of the current levels without compromising protein adequacy and diet quality. To achieve global targets, upstream food system transformations are needed with subsequent dietary changes.
