Title: Sustainable Biorefineries Based on Catalytic Biomass Conversion: A Review
Authors: Juan Camilo Solarte‐Toro, Mariana Ortiz‐Sanchez, Pablo-José Inocencio-García, Carlos Ariel Cardona Álzate
Year: 2023
Venue: Catalysts
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/catal13050902
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4377108088

Abstract:
Biorefineries have been profiled as potential alternatives to increase biomass use at the industrial level. However, more efforts are required to improve the sustainability of these facilities through process improvement and product portfolio increase. The catalytic conversion of biomass to chemicals and energy vectors is one of the most studied research lines today. The open literature has described catalytic pathways for producing biofuels and platform molecules using this renewable resource. Nevertheless, few literature reviews have aimed to analyze the role of the catalytic conversion of biomass in biorefineries while considering the following items: (i) biocatalysis, (ii) carbon dioxide conversion, (iii) design based on catalytic biomass upgrading, and (iv) sustainability metrics. This paper reviews several processes where catalysis has been applied to improve yields and conversion to elucidate the potential of this research field to boost biomass implementation in different productive sectors. This paper provides an overview of the catalytic conversion of biomass into a series of biofuels and high-value-added products, involving key topics related to catalyst performance, use, applications, and recent trends. In addition, several research gaps and ideas are highlighted based on previous studies. In conclusion, the catalytic conversion of biomass has the potential to increase biorefineries’ sustainability. Nevertheless, more studies focused on (i) the production of new catalysts using renewable resources, (ii) the techno-economic and environmental assessment of processes involving catalysis, and (iii) the influence of involving biomass valorization via heterogeneous catalysis in existing facilities are required to obtain a real understanding of catalytic upgrades’ benefits.
