Title: Watershed science: Linking hydrological science with sustainable management of river basins
Authors: Chansheng He, L. Allan James
Year: 2021
Venue: Science China Earth Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11430-020-9723-4
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3153710434

Abstract:
Abstract Over the past decades, a number of water sciences and management programs have been developed to better understand and manage the water cycles at multiple temporal and spatial scales for various purposes, such as ecohydrology, global hydrology, sociohydrology, supply management, demand management, and integrated water resources management (IWRM). At the same time, rapid advancements have also been taking place in tracing, mapping, remote sensing, machine learning, and modelling technologies in hydrological research. Despite those programs and advancements, a water crisis is intensifying globally. The missing link is effective interactions between the hydrological research and water resource management to support implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at multiple spatial scales. Since the watershed is the natural unit for water resources management, watershed science offers the potential to bridge this missing link. This study first reviews the advances in hydrological research and water resources management, and then discusses issues and challenges facing the global water community. Subsequently, it describes the core components of watershed science: (1) hydrological analysis; (2) water-operation policies; (3) governance; (4) management and feedback. The framework takes into account water availability, water uses, and water quality; explicitly focuses on the storage, fluxes, and quality of the hydrological cycle; defines appropriate local water resource thresholds through incorporating the planetary boundary framework; and identifies specific actionable measures for water resources management. It provides a complementary approach to the existing water management programs in addressing the current global water crisis and achieving the UN SDGs.
