Title: Framework for Design of Sustainable Flexible Pavement
Authors: Enyew Asres, Tewodros Ghebrab, Stephen Ekwaro-Osire
Year: 2021
Venue: Infrastructures
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/infrastructures7010006
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4205451505

Abstract:
The conventional methodologies for the design of flexible pavements are not adequate in providing solutions that meet the diverse sustainability challenges. Therefore, developing new methodologies and frameworks for the design of flexible pavement has become a priority for most highway agencies. On the other hand, there is no sound sustainable flexible pavement framework at the design phase that considers the key engineering performance, environmental impact, and economic benefits of sustainability metrics. Hence, premature failure of flexible pavements has become a common problem leading to a growing demand for sustainable pavement. Pavement engineers need to have access to tools that permit them to design flexible pavements capable of providing sustainable solutions under various complex scenarios and uncertainties. Hence, the objective of this study was to develop a resilience analysis framework, probabilistic life cycle assessment (PLCA) framework, and probabilistic life cycle cost analysis (LCCA) framework as the pillars of sustainability. These frameworks were used to develop a single sustainable flexible pavement design framework. The developed framework enables highway agencies to effectively quantify the lifetime sustainability performance of flexible pavements during the design phase in terms of resilience, environmental sustainability, and economic sustainability; and it allows to select the optimum design by comparing alternative design options. The framework will enhance the durability of flexible pavement projects by minimizing the cost, operational disturbance, environmental impact, and supporting the design. Many countries, especially those that fully dependent on the road network as the primary transportation route, may benefit from the sustainability-based road network design, which could ensure dependable market accessibility. The resilience of such a road network may reduce the cost of business activities by minimizing the interruption in surface transportation due to the functional and structural failures resulting from extreme events.
