Title: Sustainable Food Production: Innovative Netting Concepts and Their Mode of Action on Fruit Crops
Authors: Marko Vuković, Slaven Jurić, Luna Maslov Bandić, Branka Levaj, Daqi Fu, Tomislav Jemrić
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159264
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4288491008

Abstract:
Net application in agriculture has a long history. Nets were usually used for the protection of plants against different hazards (hail, wind, birds, pests, excessive sun radiation) and, lately, from insects (nets with smaller mesh size). In recent years, photoselective netting technology has emerged, which adds desired plant responses caused by light quality changes to their basic protective properties. A combination of anti-insect and photoselective net technology (anti-insect photoselective nets) may present a notable contribution to the sustainable food production concept. Notable positive effects of this eco-friendly approach on agroecosystems are mainly achievable due to its non-pesticide pest protection of cultivated plants and, at the same time, promotion of special beneficial morphological and physiological plant responses. Although netting has been extensively studied over the last decade, there is a pronounced lack of publications and analyses that deal with their mode of action on fruit trees, which is especially true for new netting concepts. A better understanding of such mechanisms can lead to improved development and/or utilization of this technology and enhanced generation of value-added products. This review was based on a revision of the literature regarding netting in agriculture, with emphasis on fruit cultivation, and the following databases were used: Web of Science, ScienceDirect, Scopus, and Google Scholar. Although this study aims to comprehend a majority of fruit species, it narrows down to those usually net-protected and, hence, studied, such as apple, peach or nectarine, kiwifruit, blueberry, etc. Nets mainly differ in their mesh size and color, which are the parameters that mostly determine their capacity for light quantity and quality modification. Such light modifications, directly or indirectly (e.g., change in microclimate), initiate different fruit tree responses (in some cases, mechanisms) through which the final effect is realized on their vegetative and generative traits. For instance, some of them include a shade avoidance mechanism (initiated by changes in red to a far-red ratio, blue light levels, etc.), source–sink relationship, and carbohydrate availability (actualized by changes in photosynthesis efficiency, vegetative and generative growth, etc.), plant stress response (actualized by microclimate changes), etc. In most cases, these responses are interconnected, which contributes to the complexity of this topic and emphasizes the importance of a better understanding of it.
