Title: Modular Construction in the Digital Age: A Systematic Review on Smart and Sustainable Innovations
Authors: Diogo F. R. Parracho, Mohamed Nour El-Din, Iraj Esmaeili, Vasco Peixoto De Freitas, Leonardo Rodrigues, João Poças Martins, Helena Corvacho, João M. P. Q. Delgado, Ana Sofia Guimarães
Year: 2025
Venue: Buildings
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings15050765
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4407964563

Abstract:
Modular construction provides numerous benefits over traditional methods, especially when combined with digital technologies, offering a faster, safer, leaner, and more sustainable construction environment. This literature review follows the PRISMA method to assess recent advancements in digital-oriented modular construction towards a sustainable and climate-neutral built environment, identifying research trends and gaps based on three pillars: digital tools, building solutions, and environmental sustainability. This review examines the integration of digital technologies with modular construction methods, extending the analysis to circular and bioclimatic efforts, renewable energy sources, and passive building design strategies. While most articles focus on BIM uses, there is an increasing emphasis on IoT applications that leverage real-time data to achieve sustainability goals. However, no full-scale automated Digital Twin was found in this context. Additionally, Building Energy Modelling (BEM) and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) tools are frequently discussed, reflecting the push for climate-friendly housing. Despite the interest in parametric and generative design, the integration of machine learning and artificial intelligence applications for sustainable modular construction strategies remains underexplored. Only a few papers acknowledged reaching nZEB requirements despite the great emphasis on passive building solutions and renewable energy sources that contribute to this goal. However, material circularity has yet to achieve its full potential for sustainable modular construction. Moreover, there is some interest in off-grid modular buildings, although further research should be undertaken to analyse the modular construction feasibility for sustainable off-grid communities. Furthermore, the findings highlight the potential of digitalisation in modular construction to enhance efficiency and ensure environmental sustainability within the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) sector.
