Title: Screening level approach to support companies in making safe and sustainable by design decisions at the early stages of innovation
Authors: Lisa Pizzol, Arianna Livieri, Beatrice Salieri, Lucian Farcal, Lya G. Soeteman‐Hernández, Hubert Rauscher, Alex Zabeo, Magda Blosi, Anna Luisa Costa, Willie J.G.M. Peijnenburg, Stella Stoycheva, Neil Hunt, Maria José López-Tendero, Cástor Salgado, J.J. Reinosa, J.F. Fernández, Danail Hristozov
Year: 2023
Venue: Cleaner Environmental Systems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cesys.2023.100132
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382933036

Abstract:
The European Green Deal policy ambitions set out in the Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability and the Zero Pollution Action Plan identify the transition to a Safe and Sustainable by Design (SSbD) approach to chemicals and materials. The H2020 SUNSHINE project has developed an approach to operationalize SSbD, specifically addressing multi-component nanomaterials (MCNMs), and applied it to two case studies. This approach enables assessment of safety and sustainability aspects at each stage of product development from a lifecycle perspective. This is achieved via a tiered approach that uses qualitative (Tier 1), semi-quantitative (Tier 2) and quantitative (Tier 3) assessment methods. The present work focuses on the Tier 1 (self-assessment) methodology designed to evaluate the safety, functionality and sustainability in the early R&D stages of the lifecycle of chemicals and materials. This approach was developed to be implementable by industries in a straightforward manner as often there is lack of time and/or expertise to engage in resource-intensive safety and sustainability evaluations. The approach was tested using two real industrial case studies, namely nano-enabled PFAS (Polyfluoroalkyl substances)-free anti-sticking coating for bakery molds, and nano-drops of essential oil anchored to the surface of nano clays and encapsulated in a polymeric film. The results indicate that these innovative materials have a high probability to have better safety, functionality and sustainability performance compared to conventional benchmark materials.
