Title: Compritol-Based Alprazolam Solid Lipid Nanoparticles for Sustained Release of Alprazolam: Preparation by Hot Melt Encapsulation
Authors: Huma Rao, Saeed Ahmad, Asadullah Madni, Iqra Rao, Mohammed Ghazwani, Umme Hani, Muhammad Umair, Saeed Ahmad, Nadia Rai, Maqsood Ahmed, Kashif-ur-Rehman Khan
Year: 2022
Venue: Molecules
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules27248894
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4312194725

Abstract:
The current study was designed to investigate the feasibility of incorporating the water-insoluble lipophilic drug Alprazolam (Alp) into solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) to offer the combined benefits of the quick onset of action along with the sustained release of the drug. Therefore, compritol-based alprazolam-loaded SLNs (Alp-SLNs) would provide early relief from anxiety and sleep disturbances and long-lasting control of symptoms in patients with depression, thereby enhancing patient compliance. The optimized Alp-SLNs analyzed by DLS and SEM showed consistent particle size of 92.9 nm with PI values and standard deviation of the measurements calculated at <0.3 and negative surface charge. These characteristic values demonstrate the desired level of homogeneity and good physical stability of Alp-SLNs. The SLNs had a good entrapment efficiency (89.4%) and high drug-loading capacity (77.9%). SEM analysis revealed the smooth spherical morphology of the SLNs. The physical condition of alprazolam and absence of interaction among formulation components in Alp-SLNs was confirmed by FTIR and DSC analyses. XRD analysis demonstrated the molecular dispersion of crystalline alprazolam in Alp-SLNs. The in vitro release study implied that the release of Alp from the optimized Alp-SLN formulation was sustained as compared to the Alp drug solution because Alp-SLNs exhibited sustained release of alprazolam over 24 h. Alp-SLNs are a promising candidate to achieve sustained release of the short-acting drug Alp, thereby reducing its dosing frequency and enhancing patient compliance.
