Title: Logistics service providers' energy efficiency initiatives for environmental sustainability
Authors: Jessica Wehner, Naghmeh Taghavi Nejad Deilami, Ceren Altuntaş Vural, Árni Halldórsson
Year: 2021
Venue: The International Journal of Logistics Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijlm-10-2019-0270
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3205297810

Abstract:
Purpose This paper discusses logistics service providers' (LSPs’) energy efficiency initiatives for sustainable development, both from an evolutionary perspective and based on a framework consisting of actions, processes (i.e. at the operations interface) and services (i.e. at the customer interface). Design/methodology/approach Following a qualitative research design, semi-structured interviews were conducted with sustainability managers at LSPs and the data were analysed via inductive coding. Based on the results and the literature, the authors developed a maturity model for LSPs' transitions to environmental sustainability. Findings LSPs' sustainable development occurs via operational processes, services at the customer interface, and actions that support those processes and services. Energy efficiency efforts are characterised by process depth that helps LSPs to align with their customers' energy efficiency improvement processes. While services related to energy efficiency connect LSPs and their customers, actions in support vary depending on the logistics activities in which LSPs participate. Research limitations/implications Further research is needed to test and verify the maturity model and to clarify the interdependency of its three dimensions. Practical implications By categorising energy efficiency initiatives and proposing a maturity model for LSPs' sustainable development via energy efficiency, the authors have developed a tool for logistics actors to assess their progress towards improved sustainability. Originality/value The paper contributes to the literature by providing a three-pillar framework to understand the sustainability transitions of LSPs through energy efficiency. Developing a maturity model using this framework also contributes to the literature with an approach to assess sustainability advancement in the logistics industry.
