Title: Smart Logistics—Sustainable Technological Innovations in Customer Service at the Last-Mile Stage: The Polish Perspective
Authors: Katarzyna Kolasińska-Morawska, Łukasz Sułkowski, Piotr Buła, Marta Brzozowska, Paweł Morawski
Year: 2022
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en15176395
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4294151563

Abstract:
The present day is marked by the economic expansiveness of societies and the adoption and adaptation of intelligent technologies. In this hyper-world, customers expect a personalized offer enhanced with customized service, which results in the introduction of sustainable and intelligent solutions—among other services. What becomes important is not so much the “Primum non nocere” of creation as much as the “go smart to the future” in creating. The smart logistics concept is a representation of this trend. The subject of the article is an analysis of the impact of the application of the smart idea in the field of sustainable development on changes in logistics in customer service at the last-mile stage. The source of this article is exploratory research of secondary sources, including books, articles, and reports, which has been subjected to a critical content analysis. The obtained results made it possible to design and implement an explanatory study of online-buying habits of people based on the CAWI (Computer Assisted Web Interview) methodology. The collected material has become the basis for the authors to indicate the applicability of smart logistics in the field of last-mile logistics, which can be used by researchers and training institutions in the field of professionalization of management of intelligent logistics processes in customer service at the last-mile stage. The last-mile service in logistics involves reaching the largest possible number of recipients, however, it has a negative impact on the natural environment, which, of course, contradicts the concept of sustainable development, including trends that are noticeable in the logistics market, customers, and in the law. Hence, it is important to look for solutions that allow us to achieve the appropriate level of customer service in the last mile, but at the same time, take care of the natural environment. The study was narrowed down to the Polish perspective due to the growing demand for last-mile logistics services. Moreover, Poland is still a country where the concept of sustainable development is not fully understood and used. The research allowed us to indicate the directions of development of the last-mile service processes by considering the technological innovations that may support the application of the concept of sustainable development.
