Title: Biosensors for Public Health and Environmental Monitoring: The Case for Sustainable Biosensing
Authors: Ajoke Williams, Mauricio R. Aguilar, Keshani G. Gunasinghe Pattiya Arachchillage, Subrata Chandra, Srijith Rangan, Sonakshi Ghosal Gupta, Juan M. Artés
Year: 2024
Venue: ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.3c06112
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400183976

Abstract:
Climate change is a profound crisis that affects every aspect of life, including public health. Changes in environmental conditions can promote the spread of pathogens and the development of new mutants and strains. Early detection is essential in managing and controlling this spread and improving overall health outcomes. This perspective article introduces basic biosensing concepts and various biosensors, including electrochemical, optical, mass-based, nano biosensors, and single-molecule biosensors, as important sustainability and public health preventive tools. The discussion also includes how the sustainability of a biosensor is crucial to minimizing environmental impacts and ensuring the long-term availability of vital technologies and resources for healthcare, environmental monitoring, and beyond. One promising avenue for pathogen screening could be the electrical detection of biomolecules at the single-molecule level, and some recent developments based on single-molecule bioelectronics using the Scanning Tunneling Microscopy-assisted break junctions (STM-BJ) technique are shown here. Using this technique, biomolecules can be detected with high sensitivity, eliminating the need for amplification and cell culture steps, thereby enhancing speed and efficiency. Furthermore, the STM-BJ technique demonstrates exceptional specificity, accurately detects single-base mismatches, and exhibits a detection limit essentially at the level of individual biomolecules. Finally, a case is made here for sustainable biosensors, how they can help, the paradigm shift needed to achieve them, and some potential applications.
