Title: Companies Could Benefit When They Focus on Employee Wellbeing and the Environment: A Systematic Review of Sustainable Human Resource Management
Authors: Sergio Madero, Yanira Lizeth Rubio Leal, Miguel R. Olivas‐Luján, Mohd Yusoff Yusliza
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15065435
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4327957497

Abstract:
Purpose: We reviewed the scholarly literature that examines the role of sustainable practices for employee health and the environment. The study also examined the negative impact of the workplace on the wellbeing of employees and its indirect effect on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Design/methodology/approach: This was a literature review with data from the Scopus scholarly database. We found 65 results from 2008 to 2022. After eliminating duplicates and other search fields, we were left with 30 final documents. Findings: The study provided evidence that sustainable practices in the workplace increase the wellbeing of employees and reduce pollution in the environment, while also benefiting company viability. Research limitations/implications: Using other database sources besides Scopus and Web of Science could yield additional results. Practical implications: The study highlighted the need for organizations to develop sustainable HRM practices to minimize the negative effects on employee wellbeing and capitalize on the savings that are generated through sustainable initiatives. This finding could contribute to better corporate practices and the further development of research in this field. Originality/value: The HRM literature revealed the importance of having employee wellbeing practices which increase work productivity and engagement. This also empirically proved the positive impact of companies that implement sustainable HRM practices. This research provided a theoretical model that depicts the interrelation between corporate viability, employee wellbeing, and sustainable human resource management.
