Title: Poly(lactic acid)/nanocellulose biocomposites for sustainable food packaging
Authors: Jissy Jacob, Nihita Linson, Rubie Mavelil‐Sam, Hanna J. Maria, Laly A. Pothan, Sabu Thomas, Sana Kabdrakhmanova, D. Laroze
Year: 2024
Venue: Cellulose
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10570-024-05975-w
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399463453

Abstract:
Abstract Considerable interest in food packaging research has been prompted by the rising environmental impact of waste, customer awareness for readily accessible foods with extended shelf life, and ecological consciousness about the scarcity of natural resources. The utilization of plastic-based food packaging has resulted in a significant environmental concern due to the accumulation of substantial quantities of plastic in the surrounding areas. Research efforts are being motivated by ecological and health considerations in the pursuit of developing biodegradable films. Besides, poly(lactic acid) (PLA) has been suggested as a possible substitute for petroleum-based polymers because of its sustainability, simple accessibility, and biodegradability. PLA is a biodegradable plastic made from sugar beet or maize starch that may be fermented by bacteria to generate material with desirable qualities like transparency and rigidity. However, there is a need for further improvement in certain properties of PLA, such as flexibility, toughness, permeability, and thermal properties. One potential approach for enhancing these attributes involves the integration of nano-reinforcement. The utilisation of nanocellulose derived from biomass has garnered significant interest in recent times owing to its renewable nature, ability to biodegrade, impressive mechanical strength, low density, and considerable economic worth. In this study, we present a comprehensive overview of the most up-to-date methods for synthesising nanocellulose and its use as a filler material in the manufacture of PLA nanocomposites for food packaging. In addition, this study examines the emerging challenges and potential advantages associated with the utilization of PLA biocomposites incorporated with nanocellulose in the food packaging sector.
