Title: Exploring the relationship between sustainable supply chain and sustainable development goals on the financial performance of SMEs
Authors: Rismawati Rismawati, Tri Darsono, Darminto Pujotomo, Hetty Karunia Tunjungsari, Agustinus Numberi, Rostamaji Korniawan, Bejo Slamet, Agustiyanto Agustiyanto
Year: 2024
Venue: Uncertain Supply Chain Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5267/j.uscm.2024.2.012
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394886303

Abstract:
This research aims to analyze the relationship between sustainable supply chains on financial performance, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) financial performance and Sustainable supply chains on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This research uses a quantitative survey method, research data was obtained by distributing online questionnaires through media social to 390 respondents belonging to SMEs, and respondents were determined using the simple random sampling method. Data analysis used Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) Partial Least Square (PLS) with data processing tools using SmartPLS 3.0 software. The questionnaire was designed using a Likert scale of 1 to 7. The independent variable in this research is the sustainable supply chain, the mediating variable is Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the dependent variable is financial performance. The stages of data analysis are validity and reliability testing, significance or hypothesis testing, and mediation influence testing. The results of data analysis show that the Sustainable supply chain has a positive and significant relationship to financial performance, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have a positive and significant relationship to financial performance and the Sustainable supply chain has a positive and significant relationship to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To improve the financial performance of SMEs, they must implement a sustainable supply chain in their supply chain, namely from supplier to customer. To improve the financial performance of SMEs, they must implement Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their management system. Implementing sustainability in the supply chain is important to increase operational efficiency and reduce negative impacts on the environment and society.
