Title: Pathways to sustainable entrepreneurship: Analysing drivers of sustainable entrepreneurial orientation
Authors: Andrea Lazarte-Aguirre
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainable Technology and Entrepreneurship
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stae.2024.100081
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401014654

Abstract:
This study conducts a comprehensive analysis of the literature on sustainable entrepreneurial orientation (SEO) to identify the factors influencing its adoption by entrepreneurs and organisations. Given the documented impact of this capability and its components on performance, this study aims to contribute to existing knowledge regarding antecedents. The literature review includes 23 papers published in Scopus and Web of Science indexed journals between 2017 and 2023. These studies provide an overview of the evolving understanding of SEO from its conceptualisation in 2017 to the present. Using thematic analysis, this review focuses on the factors that influence entrepreneurs’ and organisations’ adoption of SEO. The results show that the adoption of SEO is influenced by complex and multi-causal factors. Based on a literature review, this study proposes a comprehensive framework that elucidates the drivers that contribute to sustainable practices through this capability. These drivers are categorised as (a) individual or personal, (b) organisational, or (c) contextual. Furthermore, the findings provide evidence that the emergence of SEO in organisations is not solely due to entrepreneurial aspects or organisational and contextual drivers. The literature identifies specific and interrelated drivers related to all three levels of action. In particular, decision-makers are found to cultivate specific characteristics and traits. This study provides value to both researchers and policymakers in the areas of sustainable development and entrepreneurship by presenting the antecedents of SEO in a systematic and structured manner. In addition, it comprehensively identifies the gaps in previous research and provides avenues for future research.
