Title: Transforming global health professions education for sustainability
Authors: Thirusha Naidu, Subha Ramani
Year: 2023
Venue: Medical Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/medu.15149
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4381716028

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Health professions education (HPE) must keep pace with rapid shifts in learning and societal contexts, control of resources, knowledge and environmental concerns. Sustainability is increasingly seen as complex, balancing the three pillars of economy, society and the environment and addressing the current generation's needs without compromising future generations' needs. We aim to orient three-pillar sustainability in (HPE) from a decolonial global perspective. CONFERENCES AS TRUTH-REGIMES: Future-proofing imperatives compel HPE to respond to sustainability calls in contexts of globalisation and internationalisation. International conferences are sites of power in knowledge production and dissemination because themes and invited speakers determine who experts in the field are and what knowledge is important. Scholarly communities, dominating the discourse, determine the nature of reality or 'truth' (ontology), theoretical foundations of that reality and approaches to knowing (epistemology). Using one international conference as a case study, we found few scholarly presentations on sustainability, especially economic disparities. Discourse in HPE is still dominated by Global North 'experts'. IMPLICATIONS: Conferences are important discursive spaces for knowledge production and exchange. Increasing attention to social justice and planetary health must include a global perspective on three-pillar sustainability. Historical and contemporary perspectives about disparities on health should exceed Eurocentric epistemologies alone. These are areas ripe for innovative research in HPE. Promisingly, there is increasing attention to curricula around health equity, disparities and clinical rotations in rural and underserved communities among educational institutions around the world. CONCLUSIONS: Future-proofing HPE requires addressing three sustainability pillars simultaneously. Conferences as influential knowledge production spaces are mostly characterised by Global North to South flow of knowledge. Global North-dominated discourse fails to reflect on the impact of historical disparities including colonialism that thwart equivalence. Transforming HPE can occur through a sustainability perspective that advances three-pillar global approaches for inclusive global legitimacy in HPE narratives and standards.
