Title: Analysis of sustainable groundwater management policies for urban development
Authors: Sandeep Varma Kuchampudi, Sandeep Panchal, S. Naveen, V. Suresh, P. Satishkumar, Imad Saeed Abdulrahman, Hayder Mahmood Salman, Pallavi Singh, S. Padmapriya
Year: 2023
Venue: Environmental Quality Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/tqem.22090
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386050151

Abstract:
Abstract Groundwater is essential to human well‐being and sustains a variety of aquatic ecosystems in both urban and rural settings. Yet, it is commonly overlooked in these contexts. As a result, groundwater may be very important to the development and well‐being of many nations if it is properly evaluated and utilized. Although the possibility for sustainable groundwater resource development is still debated in the literature, these issues still lack quantitative understanding. In order to assess groundwater potential in two different urbanized regions of “Northern Kerala, Southern India,” this research uses the “Enhanced Fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process (E‐Fuzzy AHP) based Multi‐Criteria Decision Making (MCDM)‐Geospatial Framework employing Improved Particle Swarm Optimization (IPSO)”. The study area is a coastal region that is quickly becoming urbanized and relies on groundwater resources to meet its basic needs. By incorporating both spatial and non‐spatial data into the Geographic Information System (GIS) platform, a groundwater potential zone map with an accurate integer value was created, known as the “groundwater potential index (GWPI)”. The very excellent potential zone occupies 35% and 11%, respectively, of the “urban and peri‐urban zones,” according to the final groundwater potential map, which employed the quantile technique to split the research territory into four zones. The statistical effectiveness and dependability of results in the overall decision‐making phase were examined in the validation study using the data on mean water depth level, and it was found that the reliability was well within the tolerance threshold.
