Title: Factors Affecting the Sustainability Performance of Financial Institutions in Bangladesh: The Role of Green Finance
Authors: Guang-Wen Zheng, Abu Bakkar Siddik, Mohammad Masukujjaman, Nazneen Fatema
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su131810165
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3200324216

Abstract:
Despite the increasing popularity of green finance and sustainable investment in the field of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), very few studies have investigated the effect of green finance dimensions on the sustainable performance of banks. Therefore, this study attempts to examine the dimensions of green finance and their effects on the sustainability performance of financial institutions in developing economies such as Bangladesh. The study also depicts the level of green financing adoption among the banks and non-bank financial institutions in the country between 2015 and 2020. Considering the nature of the dataset, the structural equation modeling technique was employed in this study to fulfil the research objectives. Amongst banks and non-bank financial institutions, the study highlighted private commercial banks as being the highest contributor to green financing, accounting for 78.12% of the total green financing in Bangladesh. In addition, the empirical findings revealed that the dimensions of green finance are related to the economic, social, and environmental aspects of the SDGs. Furthermore, empirical findings indicated that the dimensions of green finance—social, economic, and environmental—have a strong positive effect on the sustainability performance of banks. The study also discovered that approximately 95% of bankers identify green financing as an essential element in the short- and long-term development of banking strategies in Bangladesh. Consequently, this study adds to the body of knowledge on green finance development and the sustainability performance of banks and financial institutions in emerging economies such as Bangladesh. Therefore, major managerial policy implications are discussed.
