Title: Biotechnological strategies for remediation of arsenic-contaminated soils to improve soil health and sustainable agriculture
Authors: Reshu Chauhan, Surabhi Awasthi, Poonam Tiwari, Munish Kumar Upadhyay, Sudhakar Srivastava, Sanjay Dwivedi, Om Parkash Dhankher, Rudra Deo Tripathi
Year: 2024
Venue: Soil & Environmental Health
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seh.2024.100061
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391115321

Abstract:
Soil health is the foundation of sustainable agriculture, and its preservation is paramount in global arsenic (As) contamination challenges. Soil As contamination is a critical issue for environmental and agricultural sustainability. Rapid global urbanization and agricultural and industrial expansion release toxic heavy metal(loid)s, including As, into the soil. Arsenic contamination disrupts the rhizosphere ecosystem, affecting plant health, microbial communities, and overall soil functionality. Ensuring soil health in the face of As contamination is imperative for human well-being and for developing a resilient, sustainable environment. This review signifies the need for comprehensive strategies to revitalize soil ecosystems, promoting resilience and long-term ecological balance. Advanced biotechnological approaches, particularly bioremediation including phytoremediation, microbial remediation, mycoremediation, nano-remediation, and other integrative strategies, are highlighted for their effectiveness in addressing As contamination and promoting soil health. Conventional physico-chemical techniques make soil unsuitable for agriculture by disrupting the microenvironment. Consequently, the urgent need for soil As remediation demands the adoption of eco-friendly and sustainable approaches, such as bioremediation, phytoremediation, and rhizoremediation, to enhance soil health. Development of transgenic lines and genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are effective tools in reducing the As burden. Sphingomonas desiccabilis and Bacillus idriensis bacteria expressing the arsM gene, as well as Bacillus subtilis transformed with the arsM gene, are potential GMOs that show promising results to reduce the As burden. Transgenic rice, incorporating the arsM gene from Rhodopseudomonas palustris, demonstrated 10 times more volatile arsenicals and reduced As accumulation in grain. Additionally, the use of As-hyperaccumulating plant species and conventional methods, like chemical-assisted phytoextraction, show potential for decontaminating As-polluted soil. Future research should explore the contributions of novel biotechnological strategies to enhance soil health in regions affected by As contamination.
