Title: Mining Industry Impact on Environmental Sustainability, Economic Growth, Social Interaction, and Public Health: An Application of Semi-Quantitative Mathematical Approach
Authors: Muhammad Mohsin, Zhu Qiang, Sobia Naseem, Muddassar Sarfraz, Larisa Ivaşcu
Year: 2021
Venue: Processes
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/pr9060972
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3167500487

Abstract:
The mining industry plays a significant role in economic growth and development. Coal is a viable renewable energy source with 185.175 billion deposits in Thar, which has not been deeply explored. Although coal is an energy source and contributes to economic development, it puts pressure on environmental sustainability. The current study investigates Sindh Engro coal mining’s impact on environmental sustainability and human needs and interest. The Folchi and Phillips Environmental Sustainability Mathematics models are employed to measure environmental sustainability. The research findings demonstrated that Sindh Engro coal mining is potentially unsustainable for the environment. The toxic gases (methane, carbon dioxide, sulfur, etc.) are released during operational activities. The four significant environment spheres (atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and lithosphere) are negatively influenced by Thar coal mining. The second part of the analysis results shows that human needs and interests have a positive and significant relationship except for human health and safety with Sindh Engro coal mining. Environmental pollution can be controlled by utilizing environmentally friendly coal mining operations and technologies. Plantation and ecological normalization can protect the species, flora, and fauna of the Thar Desert. The government of Pakistan and the provincial government of Sind should strictly check the adaptation of environmental standards. Furthermore, the researchers should explore the environmental issues and solutions so that coal mining becomes a cost-efficient and environmental-friendly energy source in Pakistan.
