Title: Green Economy and Green Growth—Opportunities for Sustainable Development
Authors: Lucreţia Dogaru
Year: 2021
Venue: 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/proceedings2020063070
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3124136718

Abstract:
Economic activities are increasingly carried out in modern conditions, a situation which is often linked to a negative impact on the environment. They have now reached such a level that they can be considered a real factor in climate formation and modeling. Such a trend has generated a lot of initiatives and strategies aimed at a green economy development. Thus, special public policy measures for the green economy and green growth have been developed and also implemented in the last few years. The analysis of the main challenges in the field of economic and environmental development, as well as the public policies for a green economy, is a real concern. More and more, the global trends for sustainable development are represented by green economy and green growth. The purpose of the present article is to present and analyze the issue of green economy and green growth, which is a new operating strategy both globally and European level. Green growth represents a practical tool for achieving the objective of sustainable development, as a timeless objective. This means fostering economic growth and development, while ensuring that the natural assets continue to provide environmental resources and services. We will try also to systematize the main challenges in the field of economic and environmental development, taking into account their specific characteristics, and to provide relevant suggestions for public policies related to reducing the impact of economic activities on the environment. Additionally, particular attention is focused here on establishing the kind of relationship that occurs between the green economy, green growth and sustainable development. In this regard, we will analyze the purpose of the simultaneous functioning of these three green ideas. We consider that the co-existence of the three green ideas (green economy, green growth and sustainable development) is reasonable due to the complementary and simultaneous nature of these concepts.
