Title: How to measure the social sustainability of the circular economy? Developing and piloting social circular economy indicators in Finland
Authors: Kati Pitkänen, T.K.M. Karppinen, Petrus Kautto, H. Pirtonen, Hanna Salmenperä, H. Savolahti, E. Schubin, T. Myllymaa
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Cleaner Production
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.136238
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4318767003

Abstract:
The purpose of the study was to research the possibility and methods of measuring the social sustainability of the circular economy (CE) transition nationally and sub-nationally in Finland based on secondary and regularly updated data. The aim was to assess both the social impacts of, and socio-cultural changes needed for, the transition. Expert elicitation method was used to develop experimental pilot indicators for Finland that would cover different types of social implications and CE principles and be based on secondary data sources. 12 indicators proceeded into piloting and data collection. The study confirmed the difficulty of monitoring the social sustainability for two main reasons. First, social outcomes are often very contextual and the result of complex personal and inter-personal relations, and they are difficult to connect to only the CE development. Second, the conventional data sources are based on a linear logic and are not fit to measure the circular processes. The monitoring results show weak signs for a socially just development and socio-cultural change towards the CE. The study answers to the research gap between CE practices and conceptual frameworks for monitoring the social sustainability of the CE. The real-world national and sub-national monitoring based on data readily available in regularly updated open databases was piloted to allow continuous monitoring to support strategic regional development. The study presents a model for an iterative and systemic process to develop social indicators for the CE that can also be applied outside of Finland.
