Title: Sustainability advocacy antecedents: how social media content influences sustainable behaviours among Generation Z
Authors: Maria Giovanna Confetto, Claudia Covucci, Felice Addeo, Mara Normando
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Consumer Marketing
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/jcm-11-2021-5038
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4376117883

Abstract:
Purpose The young members of Generation Z, who are hyperconnected and addicted to social media, are thought to be particularly sensitive to environmental and social concerns. This study aims to draw on a conceptual model that is based on the stimulus-organism-response paradigm. Exposure to sustainability content on social media is considered to be a stimulus that affects the development of sustainability advocacy among GenZers, who modify their lifestyles. Five hypotheses are developed and tested. The goal is to define the antecedents of sustainability advocacy. Design/methodology/approach A Web survey was distributed to 660 Italian members from Generation Z (aged between 14 and 25) to detect the frequencies of exposure to sustainability content on social media, sustainable habits, sustainable consumption behaviours and actions that are related to sustainability advocacy on social media. Correlation and multiple regression analyses were conducted to investigate the relationships between these factors. Findings The results show that exposure to sustainability content on social media affects both sustainable habits and sustainable consumption behaviour. These three factors influence the propensity to promote sustainability-related issues on social media and should, therefore, be considered to be antecedents of sustainability advocacy. Practical implications The study, which takes the social responsibilities of large companies into account, is conducive to understanding how brands can intervene in the soliciting processes of sustainability advocacy through social media to gain legitimacy and increase brand awareness. Originality/value This study is among the first to consider the use of social media for advocating sustainability among Generation Z, thus enriching academic research on this cohort.
