Title: Ensuring Sustainable Digital Inclusion among the Elderly: A Comprehensive Analysis
Authors: Rinku Mohan, Farrukh Saleem, Kiran Voderhobli, Akbar Sheikh-Akbari
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16177485
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401991936

Abstract:
Advancements in digital technologies have transformed the world by providing more opportunities and possibilities. However, elderly persons have several challenges utilizing modern technology, leading to digital exclusion, which can negatively impact sustainable development. This research attempts to address the current digital exclusion by addressing the challenges older people face considering evolving digital technologies, focusing on economic, social, and environmental sustainability. Three distinct goals are pursued in this study: to perform a detailed literature review to identify gaps in the current understanding of digital exclusion among the elderly, to identify the primary factors affecting digital exclusion in the elderly, and to analyze the patterns and trends in different countries, with a focus on differentiating between High-Income Countries (HICs) and Lower Middle-Income Countries (LMICs). The research strategies used in this study involve a combination of a literature review and a quantitative analysis of the digital exclusion data from five cohorts. This study uses statistical analysis, such as PCA, chi-square test, one-way ANOVA, and two-way ANOVA, to present a complete assessment of the digital issues that older persons experience. The expected results include the identification of factors influencing the digital divide and an enhanced awareness of how digital exclusion varies among different socio-economic and cultural settings. The data used in this study were obtained from five separate cohorts over a five-year period from 2019 to 2023. These cohorts include ELSA (UK), SHARE (Austria, Germany, France, Estonia, Bulgaria, and Romania), LASI (India), MHAS (Mexico), and ELSI (Brazil). It was discovered that the digital exclusion rate differs significantly across HICs and LMICs, with the UK having the fewest (11%) and India having the most (91%) digitally excluded people. It was discovered that three primary factors, including socio-economic status, health-related issues, and age-related limitations, are causing digital exclusion among the elderly, irrespective of the income level of the country. Further analysis showed that the country type has a significant influence on the digital exclusion rates among the elderly, and age group plays an important role in digital exclusion. Additionally, significant variations were observed in the life satisfaction of digitally excluded people within HICs and LMICs. The interaction between country type and digital exclusion also showed a major influence on the health rating. This study has a broad impact since it not only contributes to what we know academically about digital exclusion but also has practical applications for communities. By investigating the barriers that prevent older people from adopting digital technologies, this study will assist in developing better policies and community activities to help them make use of the benefits of the digital era, making societies more equitable and connected. This paper provides detailed insight into intergenerational equity, which is vital for the embedding principles of sustainable development. Furthermore, it makes a strong case for digital inclusion to be part of broader efforts (and policies) for creating sustainable societies.
