Title: A Review of the Status, Effects, Prevention, and Remediation of Groundwater Contamination for Sustainable Environment
Authors: Gokulan Ravindiran, Sivarethinamohan Rajamanickam, S. Sujatha, Balamurugan Karupaiya Sathaiah, R. Gobinath, Senthil Kumar Muniasamy, Gasim Hayder
Year: 2023
Venue: Water
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/w15203662
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387782421

Abstract:
Most water systems that support ecosystems and feed humans are depleted or stressed. Aquifer characteristics, topography, subsurface activities, climate, and geochemical processes regulate groundwater availability, a reliable source of fresh water. Globally, agriculture, industries, and the domestic sector are the three major sectors that consume vast quantities of freshwater resources. Further anthropogenic activities, such as soil leaching, acid rain, fertilizer, pesticides, mining, and other industrial activities, resulted in the release of organic and inorganic pollutants that affected global water resources. In India, groundwater is used in huge quantities, resulting in groundwater depletion of 1 to 2 m a year. Low-income countries face many issues related to water pollution, and the availability of safe water is minimal. In 2019, deaths due to unsafe sanitation accounted for 2.2% of the total global deaths, amounting to 1.2 million people’s deaths. India recorded 6.6% of deaths due to unsafe sanitation in 2019. India and China accounted for around 90.41% and 60.4% of the groundwater utilization for agricultural purposes, respectively. In 2020, China and India utilized vast quantities of nutrients (nitrate and phosphate) for crop growth to enhance crop yield, resulting in the highest nitrate and phosphate concentrations in groundwater. Remediating contaminants from different sources requires knowledge of their concentration, behavior, cycling, and degradation pathways. According to safety guidelines, limiting and optimizing crop organic and inorganic fertilizer, pesticide waste disposal, and empty container disposal can reduce groundwater contamination. The present study summarized groundwater utilization in various sectors, potential sources of groundwater contamination impacts on human health and the environment, preventive measures, and mitigation methods to overcome groundwater pollution.
