Title: Natural dye extracted from Triadica Sebifera in aqueous medium for sustainable dyeing and functionalizing of viscose fabric
Authors: Rony Mia, Md. Minhajul Islam, Taosif Ahmed, Azhar Waqar, Nusrath Jahan Khanam, Suraiya Sultana, Md. Sajjadul Karim Bhuiyan, Md. Nizam Uddin
Year: 2022
Venue: Cleaner Engineering and Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clet.2022.100471
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4220853267

Abstract:
Sustainable dyeing with natural compounds has gained more attention for a wide range of functional properties and environmental benefits. The purpose of this study was to investigate aqueous extraction in an alkaline medium in order to extract natural dyes from the bark of the Chinese tallow tree (Triadica Sebifera) and to determine its dyeing potential on viscose fabric. The perfect conditions for dye extraction were observed at M: L ratio 1:20, temperature 90 °C, pH 10, and time 100 min. Using different mordanting techniques severe dyeing process was done by using FeSO4.7H2O, KAl(SO4)2.12H2O, SnCl2.2H2O, CuSO4.5H2O, ZnSO4.7H2O for viscose fabric. Here, three varied mordanting strategies, pre-mordanting, meta-mordanting, and post-mordanting were applied. The outcome has demonstrated that the dyeing of viscose fabric through post-mordanting strategy with KAl(SO4)2.12H2O in various time, temperature, pH shown the better performances as well as superior result than the other different mordant. The CIELab values and color strength (K/S) values were measured using different conditions and find out the optimized value by orthogonal experiment. The interactions of dyed particles with viscose fabrics was confirmed by FTIR analysis. The color fastness properties were also in the acceptable range of fastness ratings of 4 for light, 4–5 for wash, 4–5 for dry rubbing and 4 for wet rubbing. The dyed viscose fabric was shown an excellent UV protection properties with 48.50 ultraviolet protection factor (UPF) value. The dyeing of viscose fabric with Chinese tallow tree (Triadica Sebifera) are very promising and can be considered as the potential alternative candidate of synthetic dyes to meet the actual demand of viscose fabric dyeing and functionalizing in the textile industry.
