Title: The Assessment of Internal Indicators on The Balanced Scorecard Measures of Sustainability
Authors: Funda Gazi, Tarık Atan, Mahmut Kılıç
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14148595
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4285595122

Abstract:
Background: Performance evaluation has become an essential tool for managers in the banking sector, which is undergoing frequent and rapid changes. It allows banks to maintain a high level of returns and reach their targets while staying competitive. In this context, sustainable performance management has emerged as essential for the banking sector. Indeed, the sustainable management of performance, while increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of organizations, also ensures sustainable measurement based on balanced scorecard practices. Purpose: This study aims to examine the assessment of internal indicators on the balanced scorecard of sustainability in the banking system in North Cyprus, which is one of the sustainable performance evaluation methods. Moreover, it aims to evaluate and reveal the effects of innovation performance, organizational culture, intrapreneurship, and the efficiency and effectiveness of the accounting information system on overall business performance in terms of the performance scorecard to achieve sustainable balanced scorecard systems. Design/Methodology/Approach: This study (BSC), which focuses on the banking industry in North Cyprus, was motivated by the recent and limited usage of a balanced scorecard. The questionnaire was used to gather data from 350 employees and managers of 21 banks in North Cyprus. Analyses of the collected data were conducted using structural equation modeling (SEM, AMOS 25). Findings: The findings of the research established that organizational culture, intrapreneurship, and accounting information system effectiveness have positive effects on a balanced scorecard and its sub-dimensions. Innovation performance does not affect the balanced scorecard and its sub-dimensions. Originality/Value: In identifying the advantages and contributions in BSC introduction and implementation, the study contributes to the current state of knowledge, enabling organizations which intend to use this tool to adopt it and develop it. This study takes organizations’ culture, innovation and intrapreneurship performance, and development on accounting and information systems into consideration in relation to the implementation process of BSC.
