Title: Addressing the Challenges to Sustainable Initiatives in Value Chain Flexibility: Implications for Sustainable Development Goals
Authors: Ashish Dwivedi, Dindayal Agrawal, Ajay Jha, Massimo Gastaldi, Sanjoy Kumar Paul, Idiano D’Adamo
Year: 2021
Venue: Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s40171-021-00288-4
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3199176326

Abstract:
The value chain refers to the source of competition to facilitate organizations to maximize and sustain value for their consumers. Value chain flexibility is necessary to build sustainable initiatives in addressing ambiguity. In the literature, there is a lack of framework to highlight the challenges to sustainable initiatives in value chain flexibility. This study fills this research gap by suggesting a framework for challenges to sustainable initiatives in value chain flexibility. In this study, thirteen potential challenges to sustainable initiatives in value chain flexibility are identified and an integrated model is developed. It adopts the modified Total Interpretive Structure Model and the Cross-Impact Matrix Multiplication Applied to Classification methodology. The mixed approach is used as the modified Total Interpretive Structure Model organizes the binary interactions among the challenges, while Cross-Impact Matrix Multiplication Applied to Classification analysis organizes specific precise assessments of the driving power and dependence of the challenges. The results of the study reflect that (i) lack of supplier commitment to sustainable products and (ii) lack of knowledge toward sustainability in value chains are the challenges that achieved the highest driving power. The challenge 'inadequate communication among the suppliers in the value chain' is at the highest level in the analysis. The proposed framework could help government and non-government bodies to formulate policies to efficiently address challenges to sustainable initiatives in value chain flexibility.
