Title: Integrated life cycle sustainability assessment of the electricity generation sector in Bangladesh: Towards sustainable electricity generation
Authors: Ebne Rashid, Nehreen Majed
Year: 2023
Venue: Energy Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2023.10.041
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387992598

Abstract:
The electricity sector of Bangladesh has experienced a drastic expansion over the last decade, which will continue in the future. However, the country is not attaining optimal benefit from the sector due to discrepancies among its different components. Increased generation capacity based on fossil fuel sources is not only causing negative environmental impacts but also raising future energy security concerns. Stakeholders are unable to address these interconnected issues due to lack of adequate knowledge, which is leading to policy inconsistencies. This paper aims to evaluate the integrated sustainability of Bangladesh’s electricity generation, considering environmental, economic and social aspects using a life cycle approach. Eighteen sustainability indicators have been assessed for five electricity generation technologies currently in operation. Applying a multi-criteria decision analysis, all the technologies have been ranked considering equal as well as differing preferences for the three aspects. Solar power followed by hydropower is the most sustainable option when all aspects are given equal importance and priority is given to economic and social aspects. However, hydropower becomes the most sustainable option when the environmental aspect is prioritized. Among fossil sources, gas is the best and oil power is found as the least sustainable option in all preferences except the environmental aspect when coal becomes the worst. By identifying the disputes between different indicators, this study demonstrates the variations in the results of the integrated sustainability assessment that can be considered while planning improved energy policies for sustainable future electricity generation.
