Title: Dry beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) as a vital component of sustainable agriculture and food security—A review
Authors: Mark A. Uebersax, Karen A. Cichy, Francisco E. Gomez, Timothy G. Porch, Jim Heitholt, Juan M. Osorno, Kelvin Kamfwa, Sieglinde S. Snapp, Scott Bales
Year: 2022
Venue: Legume Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/leg3.155
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281912450

Abstract:
Abstract The importance of legumes in sustainable cropping systems has been studied extensively. Among legumes, common beans ( Phaseolus vulgaris L.) are a rich world resource of biodiversity with two centers of domestication (Andes and Central America) and over 10 major market classes cultivated globally. Common beans are recognized as a nutrient‐dense, healthy food source due to their high protein, dietary fiber, and minerals content and also being a rich source of resistant and slowly digestible starch, which elicits a lower glycemic response. Some bioactive compounds present in beans are reported to mitigate cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, hyper‐cholesterolemia, and cancer. Dry bean production systems provide unique advantages that support sustainability, including a low carbon footprint and short growth cycle, which facilitates crop diversification and cover crop integration. Symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF), a unique characteristic of legumes, promotes environmentally friendly production through modest fertilizer use. Advances to improve the upright plant architecture of beans during the last two decades have enhanced options for direct harvest thereby reducing the number of equipment passes required. Overall, the sustainability implications of diversifying crop rotation using beans result in reduced requirements for environmentally unfriendly inputs and buffering of crop productivity under variable weather conditions. This review article covers common beans' role in agricultural sustainability (biodiversity, SNF, rotational diversity, harvest management) and as a sustainable source of nutrition and food security. Further discussion includes measures to enhance dry beans sustainability through breeding and crop management practices by addressing biotic and abiotic stresses (diseases, drought, high temperature, waterlogging, conservation tillage).
