Title: Sustainable and cost-effective optimal design of steel structures by minimizing cutting trim losses
Authors: Raffaele Cucuzza, Majid Movahedi Rad, Marco Domaneschi, Giuseppe Carlo Marano
Year: 2024
Venue: Automation in Construction
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2024.105724
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401900261

Abstract:
Since the beginning of the structural optimization field, the optimal design was characterized by the least-weight configuration. In this sense, all the researchers agreed on adopting the minimum-weight optimization statement as the most promising approach to achieve an optimized employment of material. However, especially for steel structures, this approach completely fails the primary goal of encouraging standardization of pieces during the production phase. Except for rare cases, increasing diversity among structural elements leads to a dramatic increase in the financial cost as well as the environmental impact of the structure because of the material waste generated during the cutting procedure. In this paper, a real-coded Genetic Algorithm has been adopted and the well-known one-dimensional Bin Packing Problem has been implemented within the structural optimization process. The Objective Function formulation lies in a marked change of the paradigm in which the target function is represented by the amount of steel required by the factory instead of the structural cost (e.g. weight). The proposed approach is tested on different steel structures moving from 2D truss beams to 3D domes. Addressing the optimal stock of existing elements leads to a significant waste reduction of 40% in almost all the investigated case studies. • Minimization of cutting trim losses for steel structures. • Applications of the Cutting Stock Problem(CSP)in Civil engineering. • Definition of the case studies: 2D truss and 3D reticular dome. • Comparison between the CSP approach and the minimum-weight approach. • CSP approach leads to a waste reduction of 50% with a negligible increase in mass.
