Title: Accelerating the transition towards sustainable agriculture: The case of organic dairy farming in the Netherlands
Authors: R.W. Verburg, Emma Verberne, Simona O. Negro
Year: 2022
Venue: Agricultural Systems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agsy.2022.103368
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4214680168

Abstract:
Regardless 30 years of similar regulations and a common internal market, the diffusion of organic farming strongly differs amongst European member states. While the share of organic farmland in 2018 in Denmark and Austria was respectively 9.8% and 24.7%, in the Netherlands it was only 2.3%. The aim of this paper was to analyze what factors may determine the very different diffusion of organic dairy farming in the Netherlands, compared to Denmark and Austria. We applied the Technological Innovation System (TIS) framework to the case of organic dairy farming in the Netherlands, for which a literature review and interviews with key actors within the dairy value chain were carried out. To identify potential leverage points for upscaling also interviews with key actors from Denmark and Austria were held. Various barriers in the fulfilment of the seven TIS functions of Dutch organic dairy farming could be identified. With regard to the system function market formation a diversification in certified dairy products are signaled as important factors for upscaling. The function entrepreneurial activities will benefit from an reinforcement of governmental subsidies, since farmers who convert to organic run financial risks. Regarding the function guidance of the search, more consistent and systemic governmental support is needed, since the conversion to organic encompass a regime shift rather that supporting newcomers entering the sector. By studying the blocking mechanisms that hinder diffusion of organic dairy, the paper provides several leverage points that may also be applicable to the arrested diffusion of organic farming in other countries as well as the larger sustainability transition in European agriculture.
