Title: The intersection of economic growth and environmental sustainability in China: Pathways to achieving SDG
Authors: Shaohuai Feng, Mohd Wira Mohd Shafiei, Theam Foo Ng, Jie Ren, Yefeng Jiang
Year: 2024
Venue: Energy Strategy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2024.101530
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402943686

Abstract:
This study explores the intricate relationship between economic development and ecological degradation in China to find ways to achieve the set goals of sustainable development within the framework of the SDGs. Fueled by the pursuit of sustainable development alongside economic growth, this study includes dimensions like carbon footprint, air and water pollution, and resource consumption in thirty-three provinces of China for the period of 2005–2015.Based on economic, environmental, and political perspectives, the existing research compares one policy measure the Chinese government has adopted to promote sustainable environmental development while continuing economic growth. This study, therefore, highlights the trade-offs and co-benefits between environmental conservation and development, based on an evaluation of large datasets and a review of literature. In analyzing the key findings, the paper notes significant progress and shortcomings in achieving the set Sustainable Development Goals. The findings indicate that sustainable clean water investments synergize with the protection of land-based ecosystems and climate action plans. Therefore, these findings enhance the understanding of China's sustainable development process, providing relevant knowledge to practitioners, policymakers, and scholars to tackle similar issues worldwide. The study demonstrates the need for policy coherence and intervention measures to align economic development with environmental conservation, contributing to the discourse on sustainable development. • The study employs a multidisciplinary approach encompassing perspectives from economics. • This study explores the complex relationship between environmental sustainability and economic growth. • It reveals the environmental consequences that come with China's explosive economic growth. • These results contribute to the discourse on sustainable development by shedding light on China's path.
