Title: Continuing professional development (CPD) system development, implementation, evaluation and sustainability for healthcare professionals in low- and lower-middle-income countries: a rapid scoping review
Authors: Lisa Merry, Sonia Angela Castiglione, Geneviève Rouleau, Dimitri Létourneau, Caroline Larue, Marie‐France Deschênes, Dolly Maria Gonsalves, Lubana Ahmed
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Medical Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12909-023-04427-6
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4383376878

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Policymakers and program developers in low-and lower-middle-income countries (LLMICs) are increasingly seeking evidence-based information and guidance on how to successfully develop and implement continuing professional development (CPD) systems. We conducted a rapid scoping review to map and synthesize what is known regarding the development, implementation, evaluation and sustainability of CPD systems for healthcare professionals in LLMICs. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, CINAHL and Web of Science. Reference lists were screened and a cited reference search of included articles was conducted. Supplementary information on the CPD systems identified in the articles was also identified via an online targeted grey literature search. English, French and Spanish literature published from 2011 to 2021 were considered. Data were extracted and combined and summarized according to country/region and healthcare profession via tables and narrative text. RESULTS: We included 15 articles and 23 grey literature sources. Africa was the region most represented followed by South and Southeast Asia and the Middle East. The literature most often referred to CPD systems for nurses and midwives; CPD systems for physicians were frequently referred to as well. Findings show that leadership and buy-in from key stakeholders, including government bodies and healthcare professional organizations, and a framework are essential for the development, implementation and sustainability of a CPD system in a LLMIC. The guiding framework should incorporate a regulatory perspective, as well as a conceptual lens (that informs CPD objectives and methods), and should consider contextual factors (support for CPD, healthcare context and population health needs). In terms of important steps to undertake, these include: a needs assessment; drafting of a policy, which details the regulations (laws/norms), the CPD requirements and an approach for monitoring, including an accreditation mechanism; a financing plan; identification and production of appropriate CPD materials and activities; a communication strategy; and an evaluation process. CONCLUSION: Leadership, a framework and a clearly delineated plan that is responsive to the needs and context of the setting, are essential for the development, implementation and sustainability of a CPD system for healthcare professionals in a LLMIC.
