Title: Sustainable Application of Biosorption and Bioaccumulation of Persistent Pollutants in Wastewater Treatment: Current Practice
Authors: Cătălina Filote, Mihaela Roşca, Raluca Maria Hlihor, Petronela Cozma, Isabela Maria Simion, Maria Apostol, Maria Gavrilescu
Year: 2021
Venue: Processes
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/pr9101696
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3200074789

Abstract:
Persistent toxic substances including persistent organic pollutants and heavy metals have been released in high quantities in surface waters by industrial activities. Their presence in environmental compartments is causing harmful effects both on the environment and human health. It was shown that their removal from wastewaters using conventional methods and adsorbents is not always a sustainable process. In this circumstance, the use of microorganisms for pollutants uptake can be seen as being an environmentally-friendly and cost-effective strategy for the treatment of industrial effluents. However, in spite of their confirmed potential in the remediation of persistent pollutants, microorganisms are not yet applied at industrial scale. Thus, the current paper aims to synthesize and analyze the available data from literature to support the upscaling of microbial-based biosorption and bioaccumulation processes. The industrial sources of persistent pollutants, the microbial mechanisms for pollutant uptake and the significant results revealed so far in the scientific literature are identified and covered in this review. Moreover, the influence of different parameters affecting the performance of the discussed systems and also very important in designing of treatment processes are highly considered. The analysis performed in the paper offers an important perspective in making decisions for scaling-up and efficient operation, from the life cycle assessment point of view of wastewater microbial bioremediation. This is significant since the sustainability of the microbial-based remediation processes through standardized methodologies such as life cycle analysis (LCA), hasn’t been analyzed yet in the scientific literature.
