Title: Drivers for the adoption of integrated sustainable green lean six sigma agile manufacturing system (ISGLSAMS) and research directions
Authors: Dharmendra Hariyani, Sanjeev Mishra
Year: 2022
Venue: Cleaner Engineering and Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clet.2022.100449
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4213455229

Abstract:
Due to the scarcity of resources, and the need for preserving the resources for the future generation, there has been significant growth in research and development in a sustainable market-focused manufacturing system, in particular with the view of product recovery, waste elimination, and landfill legislation. It has extended the responsibility of manufacturing organizations to include the recovery and safe disposal of their product, process, and supply chain waste, as well as, the adoption of a sustainable quick response manufacturing system, to produce sustainable customized products. A more compatible manufacturing system and strategy are required to meet these business goals. It is observed through literature that an integrated sustainable green lean six sigma agile manufacturing system (ISGLSAMS) provides a strong platform to meet all these business, societal and ecological needs under a single umbrella. However, many organizations opt for this strategy voluntarily and many do not. It is observed through a literature survey that through this strategy organizations improve their financial, market, social, environmental, operational, and sustainable performance. The main objective of this review is to identify the various drivers for the adoption of an ISGLSAMS, so that governments, stakeholders, and policymakers may plan the strategy for motivating the organizations for the ISGLSAMS. The review also discusses the key enablers and characteristics of ISGLSAMS, product, and strategy. The review also highlights the key characteristics, and clauses of each driver, and research areas for the drivers for the adoption of ISGLSAMS. The review also shows a performance measurement or performance benchmark framework for ISGLSAMS.
