Title: Guizhou Karst Carbon Sink and Sustainability—An Overview
Authors: Min Zhang, Yang Wu, Ming-Xing Yang, Jun Yan
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su141811518
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4296097682

Abstract:
Global warming and climate change are becoming the most popular topics among scientists. In this century, the research focusing on the process and mechanism of the carbon cycle, especially the research of reducing the concentration of atmospheric CO2 (carbon sink and carbon sequestration technology), are the core issues of global change. The karst carbon sink was neglected due to the consideration that it was a geological process with a long timescale. Recently, studies have proven that carbonate rock weathering is a rapid and sensitive process, and the Fifth Climate Change Assessment Report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirmed this. Guizhou, as the center of karst in China, has the unique advantages of the karst carbon sink, and is the core area of the karst carbon sink. On the basis of summarizing the development and evolution trend of karst carbon sinks, through data collection and field research, the Carbon Neutralization Research Group of Guizhou Institute of Technology has conducted an exploratory investigation on karst carbon sinks in Guizhou Province, and basically identified the mechanism, influencing factors and measurement methods of karst carbon sinks in Guizhou karst areas. The results show that the potential of the karst carbon sink in Guizhou is huge. Vegetation restoration, soil improvement, irrigation with external water and the cultivation of aquatic plants are important ways to increase the karst carbon sink by artificial intervention. A series of achievements have been made in the theory, technology and platform construction of the karst carbon cycle geological survey and carbon sink effect evaluation. It is worth noting that there are still great challenges in karst carbon sink measurement and verification, and in the demonstration of artificial intervention in carbon sequestration and sink enhancement, which need to be continuously tackled and improved in the “14th Five-Year Plan” period and beyond, so as to meet the needs of the carbon neutralization target of geological carbon sink services.
