Title: Microbiome Engineering for Sustainable Rice Production: Strategies for Biofertilization, Stress Tolerance, and Climate Resilience
Authors: Israt Jahan Misu, Md. Omar Kayess, Md. Nurealam Siddiqui, Dipali Rani Gupta, Nazrul Islam, Tofazzal Islam
Year: 2025
Venue: Microorganisms
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms13020233
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4406703564

Abstract:
The plant microbiome, found in the rhizosphere, phyllosphere, and endosphere, is essential for nutrient acquisition, stress tolerance, and the overall health of plants. This review aims to update our knowledge of and critically discuss the diversity and functional roles of the rice microbiome, as well as microbiome engineering strategies to enhance biofertilization and stress resilience. Rice hosts various microorganisms that affect nutrient cycling, growth promotion, and resistance to stresses. Microorganisms carry out these functions through nitrogen fixation, phytohormone and metabolite production, enhanced nutrient solubilization and uptake, and regulation of host gene expression. Recent research on molecular biology has elucidated the complex interactions within rice microbiomes and the signalling mechanisms that establish beneficial microbial communities, which are crucial for sustainable rice production and environmental health. Crucial factors for the successful commercialization of microbial agents in rice production include soil properties, practical environmental field conditions, and plant genotype. Advances in microbiome engineering, from traditional inoculants to synthetic biology, optimize nutrient availability and enhance resilience to abiotic stresses like drought. Climate change intensifies these challenges, but microbiome innovations and microbiome-shaping genes (M genes) offer promising solutions for crop resilience. This review also discusses the environmental and agronomic implications of microbiome engineering, emphasizing the need for further exploration of M genes for breeding disease resistance traits. Ultimately, we provide an update to the current findings on microbiome engineering in rice, highlighting pathways to enhance crop productivity sustainably while minimizing environmental impacts.
