Title: Advanced Computational Technologies in Vehicle Production, Digital Connectivity, and Sustainable Transportation: Innovations in Intelligent Systems, Eco-Friendly Manufacturing, and Financial Optimization
Authors: Anil Lokesh Gadi, S. Kannan, Botlagunta Preethish Nanan, Venkata Bhardwaj Komaragiri, Sneha Singireddy
Year: 2021
Venue: Universal Journal of Finance and Economics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.31586/ujfe.2021.1296
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4409195423

Abstract:
This paper includes the impacts of the Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, and other emerging technologies in the vehicle production sector, digital connectivity, and sustainable transport system. Automated and intelligent transportation for safe, efficient, and sustainable transport systems will be stressed. Key factors to promote automated or connected vehicles including connected environment, integration of all transport modes, advanced cooperative systems, and policy enforcement will be discussed. This paper contains the Axiomatic Categorisation Framework (AFS) for the dynamic alignment in a collection of disparate functions in cyber-physical systems (CPS). Developed system is enhanced for breaking the rules within autonomous vehicles (AV). It means the human personal injury is inevitable while the vehicle does not do any rules. Especially in complicated traffic situations, many of the constraints are mutually exclusive, and there is no way to obey all of them at a time. Also, there is no way to ensure that the self-driving vehicle has priority in all situations [1]. Public distrust in AV systems has to be increased and the investment in this technology has to slow down. Instead, a human driver should be partially responsible for operation. The development of a driver-behavior assistant (DBA) system is proposed, which should be able to break the rules for the distances of such slow development. It is intended to be effective in non-deterministic situations while maintaining the safety of the AV and those involved in the event. A driver's actions would not only be acceptable as a driving strategy but also would be predictable, and therefore other road users could unambiguously react.
