Title: Sustainable utilization of fruit and vegetable waste bioresources for bioplastics production
Authors: Liang Gong, Ajit Kumar Passari, Chunxiao Yin, Vijay Kumar Thakur, J.R. Newbold, William R. Clark, Yueming Jiang, S. Kumar, Vijai Kumar Gupta
Year: 2023
Venue: Critical Reviews in Biotechnology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/07388551.2022.2157241
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4316686760

Abstract:
Nowadays, rapidly increasing production, use and disposable of plastic products has become one of the utmost environmental issues. Our current circumstances in which the food supply chain is demonstrated as containing plastic particles and other plastic-based impurities, represents a significant health risk to humans, animals, and environmental alike. According to this point of view, biodegradable plastic material aims to produce a more sustainable and greener world with a lower ecological impact. Bioplastics are being investigated as an environmentally friendly candidate to address this problem and hence global bioplastic production has seen significant growth and expansion in recent years. This article focuses on a few critical issues that must be addressed for bioplastic production to become commercially viable. Although the reduction of fruit and vegetable waste biomass has an apparent value in terms of environmental benefits and sustainability, commercial success at industrial scale has remained flat. This is due to various factors, including biomass feedstocks, pretreatment technologies, enzymatic hydrolysis, and scale-up issues in the industry, all of which contribute to high capital and operating costs. This review paper summarizes the global overview of bioplastics derived from fruit and vegetable waste biomass. Furthermore, economic and technical challenges associated with industrialization and diverse applications of bioplastics in biomedical, agricultural, and food-packaging fields due to their excellent biocompatibility properties are reviewed.HighlightsReview of the diverse types and characteristics of sustainability of biobased plasticsImproved pretreatment technologies can develop to enhance greater yieldEnzyme hydrolysis process used for bioplastic extraction & hasten industrial scale-upFocus on technical challenges facing commercialized the bioplasticsDetailed discussion on the application for sustainability of biodegradable plastics.
