Title: Sustainable energy security for Central Asia: Exploring the role of China and the United Nations
Authors: Walker Darke, Marat Karatayev, Rafał Lisiakiewicz
Year: 2022
Venue: Energy Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2022.08.213
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4293550593

Abstract:
Energy is critical for assuring quality of life and underpins the attainment of the internationally agreed United Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development. Countries from the Central Asia region, specifically Kazakhstan, will by 2050 need to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels from over 80% to around 50% in order for them to achieve significant negative carbon emissions thus abide by agreed international limits. However, Kazakhstan lacks the capacity to undertake such a transition alone. International support from major nations and organisations would play a vital role in energy transition of Kazakhstan. By using policy documents on renewable energy projects and databases on auction-based energy projects over the last ten years, this article aims to analyse the existing international cooperation in sustainable energy between Kazakhstan and China, as well as with United Nations. The article argues that China and the United Nations play unique and critical roles in supporting sustainable energy security in Kazakhstan. The former as a “helper” of energy transition and exporter of technologies, techniques and capital to Kazakhstan provides support through business know-how and, most importantly, investments. The latter brings together international partners for capacity building through policy support and consulting of government. Both are essential in forming an equitable sustainable energy paradigm through iENERGY model (interconnectivity, interplay, intelligent) to achieve the respective climate and energy targets. A further deepening of ties through iENERGY model could serve as an international standard and example of cooperation in energy transition and it could bring long-term prosperity in sustainable economic growth, political stability, and energy security for Central Asian region and China.
