Title: Mapping sustainability assessment methods through the industrial symbiosis life cycle for a circular economy
Authors: Laura Cristina Ramírez-Rodríguez, Marta Ormazábal, Carmen Jaca
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainable Production and Consumption
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2024.08.005
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401425710

Abstract:
The literature on Industrial Symbiosis (IS) is rich in frameworks, methods, and tools for assessing sustainable impacts as a strategy for implementing a circular economy. However, a structured overview of integrating sustainability assessment methodologies with the IS life cycle to pursue sustainable development is lacking. This paper aims to build a knowledge base on sustainability assessment methodologies along the IS life cycle through a conceptual framework as a tool to achieve sustainable development. For this purpose, a systematic review was conducted according to PRISMA guidelines, allowing the selection of 105 cases, which were subjected to descriptive and content analysis. From this analysis, we characterized the IS cases considering the levels of the circular economy, the R-imperatives, the origin and governance configuration of the IS, and the sustainable assessment methods within the IS life cycle stages. The analysis revealed the use of 54 distinct methodologies to assess the three dimensions of sustainability, which were classified in 12 clusters and integrated in a conceptual framework considering the IS life cycle phases (identification, assessment, implementation, and monitoring). The framework enables researchers, policymakers, and industry practitioners to identify sustainable assessment methodologies, the specific sustainability dimensions being assessed, and the corresponding stage of the IS life cycle. This approach is designed to address key internal and external factors of symbiotic networks, enabling the proposal of effective policies, the provision of financial incentives, and the facilitation of knowledge sharing. Ultimately, this will foster real synergies within the industrial ecosystem, resulting in tangible sustainability benefits for businesses, the environment, and society. Future research is needed on sustainability assessment methodologies to support the implementation and monitoring phases to facilitate the implementation of successful IS cases.
