Title: Architecture of corporate reporting on the sustainable development of business entities in the agrarian sector as a tool of sustainable agri-management
Authors: Iryna Kryukova, Viktor Zamlynskyi, Тетяна Власенко
Year: 2023
Venue: Ekonomika APK
DOI: https://doi.org/10.32317/2221-1055.202302038
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4378212758

Abstract:
Increasing the level of competitiveness of the agricultural sector and solving important tasks for rural areas requires the consideration of the priorities of sustainable development. The implementation of this task requires new concepts of agricultural management, the justification of which is impossible without improving corporate reporting. The purpose of this study was to supplement the scientific and methodological framework for the development of a reporting architecture for the sustainable development of agricultural companies. This study involved the following methods: monographic, graphic, method of systematization and logical concretization, synthesis, induction and deduction, questionnaires, generalization, method of structural and genetic analysis and synthesis. The study found that in modern management, corporate financial and non-financial reporting is a strategic management tool that signals investors about the long-term nature and public priorities of business development. It was discovered that reporting on sustainable development is becoming widespread in the practice of foreign companies. The attitude of the management of Ukrainian agricultural companies towards the issue of the expediency of adding sustainable development indicators to management reporting was clarified. The corporate reporting of Ukrainian agricultural enterprises was analysed, which allowed identifying the key guidelines for reporting on sustainable development in the future. The set of qualitative characteristics of reporting on the sustainable development of Ukrainian agricultural companies was substantiated. Based on the mathematical model, an attempt was made to estimate the impact of corporate reporting on sustainable development on the profitability of agricultural companies. The results showed a connection between these factors in large agricultural holdings and uncertainty in medium and small agricultural companies. The results can be used by agricultural enterprises that are focused on achieving the sustainable development goals of agricultural production and rural areas
