Title: Review on extraction, characterization, surface treatment and thermal degradation analysis of new cellulosic fibers as sustainable reinforcement in polymer composites
Authors: Deeksha Jaiswal, G. L. Devnani, G. Rajeshkumar, Sanjay Mavinkere Rangappa, Suchart Siengchin
Year: 2022
Venue: Current Research in Green and Sustainable Chemistry
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crgsc.2022.100271
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4205933124

Abstract:
Nowadays, as environmental awareness is key issue among researchers, scientific community is looking for natural materials as they are biodegradable, low cost, eco-friendly and also safe for health. Researchers and academicians have found many natural fibers and studied their properties for their sustainable applications in various possible sectors, and studies are also going on. So, in that context several natural fiber like jute, sisal, banana, pineapple, flax, hemp, kenaf, bamboo, cornstalk waste, coir, etc. have been successfully utilized as a reinforcing material in polymer composites by replacing man made synthetic fiber. Apart from traditional natural fibers, scientific community is also looking for locally available natural fibers across the globe in different geographical locations for successful reinforcement in polymer matrix. This will not only decrease burden on traditional fibers and but also at the same time it would be helpful to enrich the rural economy. Natural fiber based composites can be used in different areas such as auto motive industry, construction industry, sports industry and food industry. This study is related with extraction, characterization, surface treatment thermal analysis and activation energy of different uncommon natural fibers available at different geographical locations worldwide. The purpose of this study is to provide a comprehensive knowledge on extraction techniques, treatment methodologies, and properties of these uncommon natural fibers so that these novel materials can be utilized efficiently as a reinforcing material in different polymer matrix. Discussions on traditional natural fibers like Bagasse, Wheat straw, Coir, Pineapple, Banana etc. have been compiled extensively in various review papers but compilation on these new uncommon natural fibers is rare. Thermal analysis along with activation energy evaluation is another aspect which has been given emphasis in discussion because this is also a very important examination to evaluate the thermal stability of these natural fibers.
