Title: Sustained reduction of essential tremor with low-power non-thermal transcranial focused ultrasound stimulations in humans
Authors: Thomas Bancel, Benoît Béranger, Maxime Daniel, Mélanie Didier, Mathieu Santin, Itay Rachmilevitch, Yeruham Shapira, Mickaël Tanter, Éric Bardinet, Sara Fernandez Vidal, David Attali, Cécile Galléa, Alexandre Dizeux, Marie Vidailhet, Stéphane Lehéricy, David Grabli, Nadya Pyatigorskaya, Carine Karachi, Élodie Hainque, Jean‐François Aubry
Year: 2024
Venue: Brain stimulation
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brs.2024.05.003
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396774386

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Transcranial ultrasound stimulation (TUS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique; when skull aberrations are compensated for, this technique allows, with millimetric accuracy, circumvention of the invasive surgical procedure associated with deep brain stimulation (DBS) and the limited spatial specificity of transcranial magnetic stimulation. OBJECTIVE: /hypothesis: We hypothesize that MR-guided low-power TUS can induce a sustained decrease of tremor power in patients suffering from medically refractive essential tremor. METHODS: The dominant hand only was targeted, and two anatomical sites were sonicated in this exploratory study: the ventral intermediate nucleus of the thalamus (VIM) and the dentato-rubro-thalamic tract (DRT). Patients (N = 9) were equipped with MR-compatible accelerometers attached to their hands to monitor their tremor in real-time during TUS. RESULTS: VIM neurostimulations followed by a low-duty cycle (5 %) DRT stimulation induced a substantial decrease in the tremor power in four patients, with a minimum of 89.9 % reduction when compared with the baseline power a few minutes after the DRT stimulation. The only patient stimulated in the VIM only and with a low duty cycle (5 %) also experienced a sustained reduction of the tremor (up to 93.4 %). Four patients (N = 4) did not respond. The temperature at target was 37.2 ± 1.4 °C compared to 36.8 ± 1.4 °C for a 3 cm away control point. CONCLUSIONS: MR-guided low power TUS can induce a substantial and sustained decrease of tremor power. Follow-up studies need to be conducted to reproduce the effect and better to understand the variability of the response amongst patients. MR thermometry during neurostimulations showed no significant thermal rise, supporting a mechanical effect.
