Title: The Obstruction and Advancement in Sustainable Energy Sector to Achieve SDG in Bangladesh
Authors: M. A. Munjer, Md. Zahid Hasan, M. Khalid Hossain, Md. Ferdous Rahman
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15053913
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321496809

Abstract:
For a developing country such as Bangladesh, renewable energy is immensely important for its entire development and advancement. Bangladesh has taken steps to increase the development capacity in the renewable energy sector and to fulfill the target of achieving one hundred percent electrification. The goal of this study is to determine the present scenario of the capability of the sustainable energy sector, the advancement as well as achievement of adopted plans, obstacles to achieving goals, and to discuss overall issues with necessary suggestions. In this article, according to qualitative research, data have been collected about the steps taken by Bangladesh in the renewable sector, potential achievements, and various progress to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) in the renewable energy sector. The most important things that have been discussed in this article are what obstacles Bangladesh faces in increasing the capacity of renewable energy and what steps should be taken to overcome those obstacles. To present the obstacles in this article, some important points are discussed including the lack of coordination among the institutions that are responsible for implementing ongoing projects and the lack of adequate maintenance. In addition to increasing public awareness of the mentioned obstacles, valuable advice has also been given in making the loan system accessible to entrepreneurs and customers, increasing the capability of renewable energy, and encouraging conducting research on the overall subject. Nevertheless, for technological advancement in the sustainable energy sector, it has been suggested to reduce imports and to make renewable energy equipment available by increasing the production of the equipment that is necessary. To enrich this renewable energy sector in a sustainable manner, the analysis of the current state of the energy division of Bangladesh, taken steps, obstacles, and given proposals presented in this article will play an important role in the future.
