Title: A Decision Support System for Assessing and Prioritizing Sustainable Urban Transportation in Metaverse
Authors: Muhammet Deveci, Arunodaya Raj Mishra, Ilgın Gökaşar, Pratibha Rani, Dragan Pamučar, Ender Özcan
Year: 2022
Venue: IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1109/tfuzz.2022.3190613
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4285412624

Abstract:
Blockchain technology and metaverse advancements allow people to create virtual personalities and spend time online. Integrating public transportation into the metaverse could improve services and collect user data. This article introduces a hybrid decision-making framework for prioritizing sustainable public transportation in Metaverse under q-rung orthopair fuzzy set (q-ROFS) context. In this regard, first, q-rung orthopair fuzzy (q-ROF) generalized Dombi weighted aggregation operators and their characteristics are developed to aggregate the q-ROF information. Second, a q-ROF information-based method using the removal effects of criteria and stepwise weight assessment ratio analysis models are proposed to find the objective and subjective weights of criteria, respectively. Then, a combined weighting model is taken to determine the final weights of the criteria. Third, the weighted sum product method is extended to q-ROFS context by considering the double normalization procedures, the proposed operators and integrated weighting model. This method has taken the advantages of two normalization processes and four utility measures that approve the effect of benefit and cost criteria by using weighted sum and weighted product models. Next, to demonstrate the practicality and effectiveness of the presented method, a case study of sustainable public transportation in metaverse is presented in the context of q-ROFSs. The findings of this article confirms that the proposed model can recommend more feasible performance while facing numerous influencing factors and input uncertainties, and thus, provides a wider range of applications.
