Title: Mammals sustain amino acid homochirality against chiral conversion by symbiotic microbes
Authors: Yusuke Gonda, Akina Matsuda, Kenichiro Adachi, Chiharu Ishii, Masataka Suzuki, Akina Osaki, Masashi Mita, Naoto Nishizaki, Yoshiyuki Ohtomo, Toshiaki Shimizu, Masato Yasui, Kenji Hamase, Jumpei Sasabe
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2300817120
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4362521061

Abstract:
Mammals exhibit systemic homochirality of amino acids in L-configurations. While ribosomal protein synthesis requires rigorous chiral selection for L-amino acids, both endogenous and microbial enzymes convert diverse L-amino acids to D-configurations in mammals. However, it is not clear how mammals manage such diverse D-enantiomers. Here, we show that mammals sustain systemic stereo dominance of L-amino acids through both enzymatic degradation and excretion of D-amino acids. Multidimensional high performance liquidchromatography analyses revealed that in blood, humans and mice maintain D-amino acids at less than several percent of the corresponding L-enantiomers, while D-amino acids comprise ten to fifty percent of the L-enantiomers in urine and feces. Germ-free experiments showed that vast majority of D-amino acids, except for D-serine, detected in mice are of microbial origin. Experiments involving mice that lack enzymatic activity to catabolize D-amino acids showed that catabolism is central to the elimination of diverse microbial D-amino acids, whereas excretion into urine is of minor importance under physiological conditions. Such active regulation of amino acid homochirality depends on maternal catabolism during the prenatal period, which switches developmentally to juvenile catabolism along with the growth of symbiotic microbes after birth. Thus, microbial symbiosis largely disturbs homochirality of amino acids in mice, whereas active host catabolism of microbial D-amino acids maintains systemic predominance of L-amino acids. Our findings provide fundamental insight into how the chiral balance of amino acids is governed in mammals and further expand the understanding of interdomain molecular homeostasis in host-microbial symbiosis.
