Title: Influence of selective acid-etching on functionality of halloysite-chitosan nanocontainers for sustained drug release
Authors: Valentina Jauković, Danina Krajišnik, Aleksandra Daković, Ana Damjanović, Jugoslav Krstić, Jovica Stojanović, Bojan Čalija
Year: 2021
Venue: Materials Science and Engineering C
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.msec.2021.112029
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3133884924

Abstract:
The functionality of halloysite (Hal) nanotubes as drug carriers can be improved by lumen enlargement and polymer modification. This study investigates the influence of selective acid etching on Hal functionalization with cationic biopolymer chitosan. Hal was subjected to lumen etching under mild conditions, loaded under vacuum with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug aceclofenac, and incubated in an acidic solution of chitosan. The functionality of pristine and etched Hal before and upon polymer functionalization was assessed by ζ-potential measurements, structural characterization (FT-IR, DSC and XRPD analysis), cell viability assay, drug loading and drug release studies. Acid etching increased specific surface area, pore volume and pore size of Hal, decreased ζ-potential and facilitated binding of the cationic polymer. XRPD and DSC analysis revealed crystalline structure of etched Hal. Successful chitosan binding and drug entrapment were further confirmed by FT-IR and DSC studies. XRPD showed surface polymer binding. DSC and FT-IR analyses confirmed the presence of the entrapped drug in its crystalline form. Drug loading was increased for ≈81% by selective lumen etching. Slight decrease of drug content occurred during chitosan functionalization due to aceclofenac diffusion in the polymer solution. The drug release was more sustained from etched Hal nanocomposites (up to ≈87% for 12 h) than from pristine Hal (up to ≈97% for 12 h) due to more intensive chitosan binding. High human fibroblast survival rates upon exposure to pristine and etched Hal before and after chitosan functionalization (>90% in the concentration of 1000 μg/mL) confirmed that both lumen etching under mild conditions and polymer functionalization had no significant effect on cytocompatibility. Based on these findings, selective lumen etching in combination with polycation modification appears to be a promising approach for improvement of Hal nanotubes functionality by increasing payload, polymer binding capacity, and sustained release properties with no significant effect on their cytocompatibility.
