Title: EFFICIENCY IN THE CONTEXT OF ENSURING SUSTAINABLE TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT
Authors: Наталія Гавкалова, Liudmyla Akimova, Alina Zilinska, Lyudmyla Yo. Avedyan, Олександр Акімов, Yulia Kyrychenko
Year: 2022
Venue: Financial and credit activity problems of theory and practice
DOI: https://doi.org/10.55643/fcaptp.4.45.2022.3830
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4294591650

Abstract:
Today, there are problems of increasing economic, social, and financial stability and environmental protection (security) in Ukraine, and they are extremely relevant and important. They necessitate the solution of complex tasks aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of communities by means of effective state policy. The article summarizes and develops an approach to the realization of the national interests of Ukraine in the context of the continuous development of communities. It has received international recognition and is thus a system of views on the movement of economies and communities as their consistent interaction with each other and with nature. Today, it is recognized as a valuable model of the future world civilization, which marks the latest state of social development and is recognized as post-industrial. The theory and practice of sustainable development is a reflection of the objective need for economic reorientation and all social development with urgent consideration of the preservation of natural and human opportunities for current and future generations. For Ukraine, especially in view of its integration policy, the introduction of the concept of sustainable development acquires not only scientific but also political relevance and is one of the significant aspects of improving the efficiency of municipal self-government and achieving the best results. Thus, among the criteria of sustainable development of regions, it is expedient to include the criteria of municipal self-government activities, which would contribute to the dynamic and sustainable development of municipal entities, but the basic and optimal level of implementation of ideas and national interests of sustainable development is the municipal level. Therefore, local authorities should ensure the sustainable development of communities, taking into account the principles of local self-government and creating conditions for the transfer of a minimum economic, ecological and social debt to future generations.
