Title: Sustainable production of biofuels from the algae-derived biomass
Authors: Tehreem Mahmood, Nazim Hussain, Areej Shahbaz, Sikandar I. Mulla, Hafiz M.N. Iqbal, Muhammad Bilal
Year: 2022
Venue: Bioprocess and Biosystems Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00449-022-02796-8
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4308182664

Abstract:
The worldwide fossil fuel reserves are rapidly and continually being depleted as a result of the rapid increase in global population and rising energy sector needs. Fossil fuels should not be used carelessly since they produce greenhouse gases, air pollution, and global warming, which leads to ecological imbalance and health risks. The study aims to discuss the alternative renewable energy source that is necessary to meet the needs of the global energy industry in the future. Both microalgae and macroalgae have great potential for several industrial applications. Algae-based biofuels can surmount the inadequacies presented by conventional fuels, thereby reducing the 'food versus fuel' debate. Cultivation of algae can be performed in all three systems; closed, open, and hybrid frameworks from which algal biomass is harvested, treated and converted into the desired biofuels. Among these, closed photobioreactors are considered the most efficient system for the cultivation of algae. Different types of closed systems can be employed for the cultivation of algae such as stirred tank photobioreactor, flat panel photobioreactor, vertical column photobioreactor, bubble column photobioreactor, and horizontal tubular photobioreactor. The type of cultivation system along with various factors, such as light, temperature, nutrients, carbon dioxide, and pH affect the yield of algal biomass and hence the biofuel production. Algae-based biofuels present numerous benefits in terms of economic growth. Developing a biofuel industry based on algal cultivation can provide us with a lot of socio-economic advantages contributing to a publicly maintainable result. This article outlines the third-generation biofuels, how they are cultivated in different systems, different influencing factors, and the technologies for the conversion of biomass. The benefits provided by these new generation biofuels are also discussed. The development of algae-based biofuel would not only change environmental pollution control but also benefit producers' economic and social advancement.
