Title: Perceived Green Human Resource Management Practices and Corporate Sustainability: Multigroup Analysis and Major Industries Perspectives
Authors: Tauseef Jamal, Muhammad Zahid, José Moleiro Martins, Mário Nuno Mata, Haseeb Ur Rahman, Pedro Neves Mata
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13063045
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3133927263

Abstract:
The substantial focus on achieving corporate sustainability has necessitated the implementation of green human resource management (GHRM) practices. The purpose of this paper is to reveal the industries’ perspective of the impact of GHRM practices (i.e., green recruitment and selection, green pay and rewards, and green employee involvement and green training) on corporate sustainability practices. Data were collected from 200 human resource professionals in major industrial sectors of a developing country. Partial least squares structural equation modelling was used to test the study hypotheses and multigroup analysis (MGA) between industrial sectors. The findings show a positive impact of three GHRM practices, i.e., green recruitment and selection, green pay and rewards, and green employee involvement on corporate sustainability. However, green training has no significant association with corporate sustainability, which is interesting. Furthermore, the multigroup analysis (MGA) revealed partial and significant differences among different sectors. The results provide more contextualized social, environmental, and economic implications to academics and practitioners interested in green initiatives. To date, limited research has been conducted to investigate whether GHRM practices can be an effective strategy in increasing corporate sustainability in a developing country context. Particularly, the industry’s perspective on the subject matter was rather absent in the existing literature. The present study fills this gap and contributes to the existing literature by providing the industry’s perspective on GHRM and corporate sustainability.
