Title: Corporate Sustainability and Financial Performance: The Moderating Effect of CEO Characteristics
Authors: Abdulateif A. Almulhim, Abdullah A. Aljughaiman
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151612664
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386050734

Abstract:
This study aimed to investigate the effect of corporate sustainability on financial performance as well as examine whether CEO characteristics influence the association between corporate sustainability and the financial performance of listed firms in the Saudi Stock Exchange. In this vein, this study is the first to utilize multiple CEO characteristics as a moderating role influencing the association between corporate sustainability and financial performance. In addition, the study focuses on the developing country of Saudi Arabia, which is one of the top oil producers in the world and is targeting to invest billions of dollars in renewable and sustainable energy projects according to Saudi Vision 2030. We primarily focused on ESG activities (environmental, social, and governance) and their impact on the return on assets and return on equity (employed as a proxy of financial performance). This study used the ordinary least squares (OLS) model to examine these associations as well as the system GMM to test for endogeneity problems. Using a sample of 1143 observations to represent the non-financial firms listed on the Tadawul All Share Index (TASI) for 9 years from 2014 to 2022, we found a negative and significant relationship between the activities of corporate sustainability and financial performance. Furthermore, we demonstrated that CEO characteristics (CEO busyness, CEO ownership, CEO education, CEO gender, and CEO tenure) exerted influence on the association between corporate sustainability and financial performance; that is, CEO busyness, CEO ownership, and CEO gender mitigated the negative influence of corporate sustainability on financial performance, whereas CEO education and CEO tenure made it worse. The results of this study have implications for regulators, firms, and stakeholders.
