Title: Encouraging circular economy and sustainable environmental practices by addressing waste management and biomass energy production
Authors: Nazim Forid Islam, Bhoirob Gogoi, Rimon Saikia, Balal Yousaf, Mahesh Narayan, Hemen Sarma
Year: 2024
Venue: Regional Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsus.2024.100174
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4405629641

Abstract:
The current linear economy assumes abundant, easily accessible, and cost-effective natural resources. However, this assumption is unsustainable, especially considering the world’s current trajectory exceeding the Earth’s ecological limits. In contrast, circular economy (CE) reduces wastes and improves resource efficiency, making them a more sustainable alternative to the dominant linear model. Biomass energy generated from agricultural leftovers, forestry wastes, and municipal trash provides a renewable substitute for fossil fuels. This reduces greenhouse gas emissions and improves energy security. Proper waste management, including trash reduction, recycling, and innovative waste-to-energy technology, reduces the burden on landfills and incineration and creates renewable energy from materials that would otherwise go to waste. Although integrating these techniques is consistent with the CE’s resource efficiency and waste minimization principles, it requires addressing environmental, technical, and socioeconomic challenges. Given the pressing global issues, transitioning to a CE and implementing sustainable environmental practices are crucial to mitigate the current waste management crisis. The aim of this study is to emphasize the viability of biomass as a source of sustainable energy, the necessity of comprehensive strategies that prioritize ecological sustainability, community involvement, and innovation to achieve a circular principle based future, and the potential obstacles to the implementation of sustainable environmental practices. This study will aid in implementing CE practices to accomplish the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and landfill loads. Beyond environmental benefits, it can also bring economic, social, and health improvements. Furthermore, this study will assist societies in addressing global issues, such as resource scarcity, pollution, and climate change, as well as transitioning to a more sustainable and resilient future.
