Title: 2024 roadmap for sustainable batteries
Authors: Maria‐Magdalena Titirici, Patrik Johansson, Maria Crespo Ribadeneyra, Heather Au, Alessandro Innocenti, Stefano Passerini, Evi Petavratzi, Paul Lusty, Annika Ahlberg Tidblad, Andrew J. Naylor, Reza Younesi, Yvonne Chart, Jack Aspinall, Mauro Pasta, Joseba Orive, Lakshmipriya Musuvadhi Babulal, Marine Reynaud, Kenneth G. Latham, Tomooki Hosaka, Shinichi Komaba, Jan Bitenc, Alexandre Ponrouch, Heng Zhang, Michel Armand, Robert Kerr, Patrick C. Howlett, Maria Forsyth, John Brown, Alexis Grimaud, Marja Vilkman, Kamil Burak Dermenci, Seyedabolfazl Mousavihashemi, Maitane Berecibar, Jean E. Marshall, Con Robert McElroy, Emma Kendrick, Tayeba Safdar, Chun Huang, Franco M. Zanotto, Javier F. Troncoso, Diana Zapata Dominguez, Mohammed Alabdali, Utkarsh Vijay, Alejandro A. Franco, Sivaraj Pazhaniswamy, Patrick S. Grant, Stiven López Guzmán, Marcus Fehse, Montserrat Galcerán, N. Antuñano
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Physics Energy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1088/2515-7655/ad6bc0
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401351929

Abstract:
Abstract Modern batteries are highly complex devices. The cells contain many components—which in turn all have many variations, both in terms of chemistry and physical properties. A few examples: the active materials making the electrodes are coated on current collectors using solvents, binders and additives; the multicomponent electrolyte, contains salts, solvents, and additives; the electrolyte can also be a solid ceramic, polymer or a glass material; batteries also contain a separator, which can be made of glass fibres, polymeric, ceramic, composite, etc. Moving up in scale all these components are assembled in cells of different formats and geometries, coin cells and Swagelok cells for funamental testing and understanding, and pouch, prismatic and cylindrical cells for application. Given this complexity dictated by so many components and variations, there is no wonder that addressing the crucial issue of true sustainability is an extremely challenging task. How can we make sure that each component is sustainable? How can the performance can be delivered using more sustainable battery components? What actions do we need to take to address battery sustainability properly? How do we actually qualify and quantify the sustainability in the best way possible? And perhaps most importantly; how can we all work—academia and battery industry together—to enable the latter to manufacture more sustainable batteries for a truly cleaner future? This Roadmap assembles views from experts from academia, industry, research institutes, and other organisations on how we could and should achieve a more sustainable battery future. The palette has many colours: it discusses the very definition of a sustainable battery, the need for diversification beyond lithium-ion batteries (LIBs), the importance of sustainability assessments, the threat of scarcity of raw materials and the possible impact on future manufacturing of LIBs, the possibility of more sustainable cells by electrode and electrolyte chemistries as well as manufacturing, the important role of new battery chemistries, the crucial role of AI and automation in the discovery of the truly sustainable batteries of the future and the importance of developimg a circular battery economy.
