Title: Curbing environmental degradation to balance sustainable development: Evidence from China
Authors: Muneza Kagzi, Vishal Dagar, Nadia Doytch, Deepika Krishnan, M. Nikhil Raj
Year: 2024
Venue: Environmental and Sustainability Indicators
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indic.2024.100465
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401935187

Abstract:
To achieve the goals of sustainable development, it is crucial to check the balance of increased level of international trade along with financial development, foreign direct investment (FDI), energy consumption, and institutional advancement with the quality of the environment. This study focuses on how these variables have caused environmental degradation in China. To achieve Goal 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), i.e. to increase the nation's resilience to natural disasters and hazards related to climate change, to promote climate action and safeguard life as part of sustainable development, this involves the analysis of time-series data sets from 1975 to 2021 and the use of the dynamic version of ARDL (Autoregressive Distributed Lag) cointegration or simulation model. The results show that FDI is essential for lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions over the long term, but financial development, the volume of international trade, and the level of energy use or consumption contribute to environmental deterioration. Moreover, China's environmental degradation is decreased by high institutional quality. To accomplish the SDGs and reduce environmental degradation, it is essential to take into account how these elements interact and to adopt a holistic strategy that includes regulations, policies, and education. On the basis of our trustworthy findings, suggestions are made to keep the sustainable development. • We apply dynamic ARDL cointegration to unveil factors of environmental pollution in China. • We focus on SDG #13: increase the nation's resilience to natural hazards related to climate change. • FDI plays a critical role in reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions over the long term. • Financial development, trade, and energy consumption contribute to an increase in CO2 emissions. • Institutions help reduce negative environmental degradation.
