Title: Provider REport of Sustainment Scale (PRESS): development and validation of a brief measure of inner context sustainment
Authors: Joanna C. Moullin, Marisa Sklar, Mark G. Ehrhart, Amy Green, Gregory A. Aarons
Year: 2021
Venue: Implementation Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13012-021-01152-w
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3198433301

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Implementation scientists and practitioners often rely on frontline providers for reporting on implementation outcomes. Furthermore, measures of sustainment are few, and available sustainment measures are mainly setting or evidenced-based practice (EBP) specific, require organizational and system-level knowledge to complete, and often lack psychometric rigor. The aim of this study was to develop a brief, pragmatic, and generalizable measure for completion by frontline service providers of the implementation outcome, sustainment. METHODS: We utilized a Rasch measurement theory approach to scale the development and testing of psychometric parameters. Sustainment items were developed to be relevant for direct service providers to complete. In order to promote generalizability, data were collected and items were tested across four diverse psychosocial evidence-based practices (motivational interviewing [MI], SafeCare®, classroom pivotal response training [CPRT], and an individualized mental health intervention for children with autism spectrum disorder [AIM-HI]) and in four service settings (substance use disorder treatment, child welfare, education, and specialty mental health). Associations between the sustainment measure and sustainment leadership, sustainment climate, and attitudes towards the adoption and use of each of the EBPs were assessed to confirm construct validity. RESULTS: Three items for the Provider REport of Sustainment Scale (PRESS) were assessed for measuring the core component of sustainment: continued use of the EBP. Internal consistency reliability was high. The scale indicated fit to the Rasch measurement model with no response dependency, ordered thresholds, no differential item functioning, and supported unidimensionality. Additionally, construct validity evidence was provided based on the correlations with related variables. CONCLUSION: The PRESS measure is a brief, three-item measure of sustainment that is both pragmatic and useable across different EBPs, provider types, and settings. The PRESS captures frontline staffs' report of their clinic, team, or agency's continued use of an EBP. Future testing of the PRESS for concurrent and predictive validity is recommended.
