Title: Empowering Communities to Act for a Change: A Review of the Community Empowerment Programs towards Sustainability and Resilience
Authors: Diana Dushkova, Olga Ivlieva
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16198700
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403249345

Abstract:
At the global level, significant efforts have been made to address societal challenges and improve the lives of people and restore the planet’s ecosystems through sustainability and resilience programs. These programs, however, tend to be driven by governments, private sectors, and financial institutions, and therefore often lack a process of empowerment to ensure that the local communities can participate actively in co-designing and implementing these programs. More knowledge is needed on how to develop such programs and how the process of empowerment can be organized so that it supports in the long run sustainability transformation. Against this background, the paper explores the role of community empowerment programs as a critical tool for sustainability management strategies and practices. A semi-systematic review of 21 community empowerment programs for sustainability and resilience is conducted. The analysis reveals that the programs mostly aimed to address challenges such as the lack of education and capacity, limited access to basic services and resources, and poor governance and management. The programs initiators involve a diverse set of actors, especially through established partnerships and networks. Most of the programs address the specific needs of vulnerable or marginalized groups or communities. The structure of the programs typically follows a phased methodological approach, beginning with awareness-raising and problem identification, followed by capacity building that allows for making decisions collaboratively and for co-creating innovative solutions based on local knowledge and values. Also, monitoring and evaluation of transformative impact are mentioned as important structural elements. Specifically, the analysis highlights four main focus areas of empowerment: (1) capacity building, (2) self-reliance, control, ownership, responsibility, and independence, (3) participation, engagement, and collective action, and (4) integration of local knowledge and values. However, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to such programs. Instead, successful empowerment programs towards sustainability depend on a deep understanding of local contexts and the ability to tailor strategies to meet specific community needs. The review also identified knowledge gaps that require further investigation to enhance the effectiveness of empowerment programs for both people and nature.
