Title: Barriers facing the transition toward sustainable energy system in Kuwait
Authors: Osamah A. Alsayegh
Year: 2021
Venue: Energy Strategy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2021.100779
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3216350501

Abstract:
From the highest political ruling institute through the Amir of the State of Kuwait, the country announced its keenness to meet 15% of the local energy demand from renewable sources by 2030. Since the announcement in 2012, there has not been an effective assignment toward the goal. Up to date, the country's annual total energy generation from renewable technology systems is less than 1%. Furthermore, current indications imply that Kuwait will not reach the renewable energy target by 2030. This paper models the current system structure in pursuing the transition toward energy sustainability in Kuwait, focusing on renewable energy. The model development method is carried out by utilizing data and information on the performance and trends of Kuwait's energy system and related implications. Moreover, it incorporates efforts that local institutions have taken toward the development of a sustainable energy system. The model is based on a “push-pull” concept that identifies the main gaps in the current system and the barriers facing the deployment of renewable energy technologies. The development system lacks enablers involving legal and regulatory frameworks, supporting infrastructure, proper financing policies, and above all, a political will that fosters these enablers. Evidence suggests that renewable energy and clean technologies do not have sufficient potential impact on the country's economy and, therefore, they are trivial to the country's political system. Policy acts are suggested to imbed renewable and clean technologies within the country's economy to gain political popularity. Consequent implications may lead to profitable investments and social benefits, mitigating negative geopolitical impacts on the country's energy security.
