Title: Exploring the antifungal activities of green nanoparticles for sustainable agriculture: a research update
Authors: Muhammad Atif Irshad, Azhar Hussain, Iqra Nasim, Rab Nawaz, Aamal A. Al‐Mutairi, Shaheryar Azeem, Muhammad Rizwan, Sami A. Al‐Hussain, Ali Irfan, Magdi E. A. Zaki
Year: 2024
Venue: Chemical and Biological Technologies in Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40538-024-00662-1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402449485

Abstract:
Green nanotechnology has significant potential for use in agriculture particularly due to their antifungal properties, ability to control fungal diseases and reduce the reliance on chemical fungicides. Biotic stresses in agriculture have caused widespread damage worldwide, and green NPs provided eco-friendly alternatives to traditional chemical treatments, which are frequently toxic and harmful to the ecosystem. Green NPs could become an important tool in modern agricultural practices and environmental remediation if appropriate research is conducted to identify cost-effective production methods as well as safe and sustainable applications. In order to understand the potential of green NPs for sustainable agriculture and identify potential risks, research is ongoing into the effectiveness in agriculture sectors. Research update on green NPs is presented in this paper using data published on science direct over the last 15 to 20 years to clarify and understand the antifungal mechanisms of green metallic NPs, carbon and graphene nanotubes, nanocomposites as well as other type of nanomaterials. These green NPs are found to be more effective against pathogens on crops and humans than conventional fungicide approaches. They are very effective against fungi that affect cereal crops, including Fusarium oxysporum, Botrytis cinerea, and Candida species, etc. The green NPs developed using green synthesis methods are both cost-effective and environmentally friendly. Moreover, research is also required to identify the best methods for applying green NPs for crop production and sustainable agriculture. Furthermore, research should be undertaken to establish the most cost-effective methods of making and deploying green nanoparticles at a large field size study where there is fungal attack that diminishes agricultural output and affects global crop production.
