Title: Research on Innovative Training on Smart Greenhouse Technologies for Economic and Environmental Sustainability
Authors: Angeliki Kavga, Vasileios Thomopoulos, Pantelis Barouchas, Nikolaos Stefanakis, Aglaia Liopa-Tsakalidi
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su131910536
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3199942433

Abstract:
Great advancements in technologies such as big data analytics, robots, remote sensing, the Internet of Things, decision support systems and artificial intelligence have transformed the agricultural sector. In the greenhouse sector, these technologies help farmers increase their profits and crop yields while minimizing the production costs, produce in a more environmentally friendly way and mitigate the risks caused by climate change. In greenhouse farming, especially in the Mediterranean region, a lack of knowledge and qualified personnel able to uptake new knowledge, the small size of farms, etc., make it difficult to implement new technologies. Although it is necessary to demonstrate the advantages of innovations related to sustainable agriculture, there is a little opportunity for specific training on greenhouse production in cutting-edge technologies. To gain insight into this problem, questionnaires for greenhouse farmers and intermediaries were developed in multiple choice format and filled in by the stakeholders. A statistical analysis was performed, and the results are presented in graphical form. In most cases, the findings confirmed that producers who run small farms, in most cases, have a lack of knowledge, especially on how to manage climate control systems or fertigation systems. The majority of farmers were elderly with a low level of education, which makes it difficult to be aware of the training issues, due to distrust and a lack of innovation culture. Therefore, their strategy was usually survival with cost control. However, young graduates have been recently returning to agriculture, and they are open to training activities and innovation. The most desirable training offer should be related to sustainable agriculture and precision agriculture technologies.
