Title: Evaluation of risks impeding sustainable mining using Fermatean fuzzy score function based SWARA method
Authors: Muhammet Deveci, Emmanouil Α. Varouchakis, Pablo R. Brito‐Parada, Arunodaya Raj Mishra, Pratibha Rani, Maria Bolgkoranou, M. Galetakis
Year: 2023
Venue: Applied Soft Computing
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2023.110220
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4328104866

Abstract:
Sustainability in the mining and raw materials sector is a key target in the EU Green deal agenda. The aim of this work is to determine the degree of importance of risks that may impede sustainable mining, considering UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) indicators and EU initiatives, taking as a case study the mining sector in Greece. A total of 49 risks for sustainable mining, under six categories, were identified by means of expert consultation and review of the literature. The identification and prioritization of potential risks can provide a pathway towards sustainable mining operations. The risks factors weighting is enhanced using a new Fermatean fuzzy score function with Stepwise Weight Assessment Ratio Analysis (SWARA). The proposed model is a powerful tool to handle the uncertainties and inaccuracies in the information regarding the weights of the risks. The main research findings indicate that the most important risks for sustainable mining in Greece are irresponsible mining, the lack of license to operate, and poor environmental monitoring, which are directly connected to the aim and scope of SDG12: responsible consumption and production. In addition, according to the results the category with the highest risk for sustainable mining is the one of “Risk to Environment”. A complete list of risks and risk categories, and their ranking is presented and discussed creating a priority of actions in the framework of European and international initiatives to set a road map to sustainable mining. This work provides a benchmark for future studies, with the aim of providing a tool for evaluating and ranking global risk factors that may affect sustainable mining development.
