Title: Sustainability Considerations of Green Buildings: A Detailed Overview on Current Advancements and Future Considerations
Authors: Tianqi Liu, Lin Chen, Mingyu Yang, Malindu Sandanayake, Pengyun Miao, Yang Shi, Pow‐Seng Yap
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su142114393
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4308206499

Abstract:
The concept of green building has gradually formed with the increase in public awareness of environmental protection, which also covers a wide range of elements. The green building is the fundamental platform of sustainable development. This review paper provides solutions for the multi-dimensional and balanced development of green building. Since green building is the development trend of the construction industry, it presents an opportunity to mitigate global warming and accomplish energy efficiency. However, the problem is that the development of green building’s implementation is restricted by the lack of government policies, imperfect technical abilities and unreasonable economic benefits. One conclusion drawn from the results shows that the benefits of green building implementation include environmental, economic, social, and health and safety aspects. Moreover, it is crucial to improve the awareness of stakeholders to promote the development process of green building. The government should launch campaigns to encourage developers and tenants to embrace green building, which can add value to buildings. The novelty of the paper provides a more systematic review on the sustainable considerations of green building than previous efforts in the literature. Bibliometric analysis is conducted through VOS viewer software. This review paperdiscusses the relevant benefits and challenges of green building through a critical review of existing research knowledge related to green building. The current advancements in green building are highlighted in this paper. Importantly, future recommendations for standards and policy formulation and future research directions are proposed in this review article.
