Title: The moderating role of IT governance on the relationship between FinTech and sustainability performance
Authors: Faozi A. Almaqtari
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Open Innovation Technology Market and Complexity
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joitmc.2024.100267
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393965713

Abstract:
The main aim of this study is to investigate the moderating effect of Information Technology governance on the relationship between the use of Financial Technologies and sustainability performance. The study used non-probability convenience and snowballing sampling approaches to collect data. The study collects a sample of 210 respondents targeting bankers in various positions from the Indian commercial banks. The study used structural equation modeling to estimate the results. The findings highlight the complex links between IT governance, FinTech, and sustainability-related concerns, emphasizing the importance of a comprehensive approach to sustainability. Banks can establish more complete strategies for sustainable growth by considering IT governance, FinTech, and ESG factors. The findings reveal that IT governance is critical in shaping banks’ strategic planning towards sustainable activities, evolution of Fintech, and technological advancements, which in turn influence significantly and positively sustainability performance. IT governance leads to increased adoption of Fintech and enhances sustainability performance, contributing to the growth of economic sustainability. Banks that strategically utilize IT governance to foster Fintech and sustainability performance improvements likely experience economic gains due to their focus on sustainable and technologically driven practices. The findings emphasize the importance of balancing sustainability efforts and suggest that banks that embrace IT governance while emphasizing ESG factors are more likely to embrace better sustainability performance. The findings offer advice for bankers and policymakers on how to strategically utilize technology to improve sustainability and economic performance while considering potential trade-offs.
