Title: Role of academic libraries in the achievement of quality education as a sustainable development goal
Authors: De-Graft Johnson Dei, Francisca Yaba Asante
Year: 2022
Venue: Library Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/lm-02-2022-0013
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4283782906

Abstract:
Purpose This study explored the role of academic libraries in the achievement of quality education as a Sustainable Development Goal. Design/methodology/approach The study adopted a qualitative research approach and descriptive case study design. This study focuses on academic libraries from four universities in Ghana. From each university, the researchers purposely selected four respondents, comprising the heads of the libraries, deputies, and two assistant librarians or library assistants. Primary data were collected through semi-structured interviews, observations and document reviews. The results were analyzed and presented in descriptive and interpretive forms. Findings The study established that the majority of the library staff were aware of the sustainable development goal, SDG 4. The libraries provided relevant materials to support students’ learning, organize training on information literacy and engage library patrons in periodic information literacy programs to create awareness of the SDG 4. Since the libraries do not have their own internally developed policies on the SDG 4, they depend on the general United Nations (UN) document on the SDG and SDG 4 as a guide in information delivery; and the general policies on information delivery, teaching and quality assurance of the universities in general and the libraries in particular. The study concluded with a framework to guide the successful accomplishment of the SDG 4 in libraries. Research limitations/implications The study focused on academic libraries in Ghana and adopted the purposive sampling technique which makes it assume a weak power of generalization. Practical implications The study has implications for academic libraries and librarians in Ghana in achieving the SDG 4. It will guide librarians and academic libraries in formulating policies to guide them in their activities. The framework developed as a result of the findings will equally guide the librarians in their quest to provide information to achieve the SDG 4. Originality/value This study's originality lies in its articulation of academic libraries' initiatives in the actualization of the SDG 4 in Ghana with a developed framework to guide librarians and academic libraries. Academic libraries and librarians who are eager to contribute their quota to the achievement of the SDG 4 will find this study useful.
