Title: A comprehensive review on solar photovoltaics: Navigating generational shifts, innovations, and sustainability
Authors: Ayman Mdallal, Ahmad Yasin, Montaser Mahmoud, Mohammad Ali Abdelkareem, Abdul Hai Alami, A.G. Olabi
Year: 2025
Venue: Sustainable Horizons
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.horiz.2025.100137
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4408176939

Abstract:
• The recent breakthroughs in solar PV technology were reviewed. • Recent innovations in enhancing energy harvesting were explored. • The environmental impact of solar PV was investigated. • Recycling processes of different solar cells were examined. The consumption of fossil fuels presents a combined issue of environmental degradation and depletion of the current limited resources. In this context, solar photovoltaic (PV) technology provides a fundamental component in the global shift towards addressing climate change, reducing harmful emissions, and supporting sustainable energy alternatives. In order to recognize the growth of this technology, this study conducts an investigation and exploration, covering recent improvements in solar PV. The paper provides a comprehensive overview for researchers seeking an up-to-date summary of the current status of this technology. Perovskite/Silicon and III-V/Silicon tandem cells currently possess the highest efficiency, with a record-breaking achievement of 34.6 % and 36.1 % in recent research. Furthermore, both Perovskite and tandem cells exhibit the most reasonable energy payback time (EPBT) and levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) at the laboratory scale in comparison to conventional solar cells. Perovskite/Perovskite tandem cells showed the lowest LCOE and EPBT among all other types of cells by $0.042/kWh and 0.2 to 0.4 years, respectively. The integration of bifacial and tracking systems has the potential to enhance productivity by approximately 30 %, and 20 to 57 %, respectively, depending on the tracking technology and study location. Nevertheless, the use of materials like Pb, Sn, Cd, and Te requires careful management due to their potential harmful effect on human health, especially during recycling, decommissioning, and manufacturing processes. Although third-generation and tandem solar cells show promise, they necessitate additional research to tackle issues such as costly manufacturing, scalability, stability, and durability.
