Title: Impact of green human resource management towards sustainable performance in the healthcare sector: role of green innovation and risk management
Authors: Anabela Batista Correia, Muhammad Farrukh Shahzad, José Moleiro Martins, Rimsha Baheer
Year: 2024
Venue: Cogent Business & Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/23311975.2024.2374625
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400419645

Abstract:
Over recent years, economic development and environmental degradation have become major challenges that pressurize organizations to adopt a green innovation culture. Therefore, green human resource management (GHRM) practices are necessary to improve sustainable performance in healthcare organizations functioning in Pakistan. This study literature on GHRM practices with green innovation supports an environment-friendly atmosphere in the business world to achieve sustainable performance. At the same time, managing risk remains limited in the health sector. Therefore, the present study intends to identify the execution of GHRM practices through green innovation on sustainable performance in healthcare organizations. Additionally, this study evaluates the moderating effect of risk management among green innovation and GHRM practices toward sustainable performance. This study scrutinizes the following relationships from a sample of 400 respondents from Pakistan’s government and non-government hospitals. The partial least structure equation modeling method (PLS-SEM) is implemented to measure the structural framework of sustainable performance. Results showed that GHRM practices positively affect sustainable performance through green innovation. Additionally, risk management significantly moderates the relationship between GHRM practices and green innovation towards sustainable performance. However, GHRM practices in an eco-friendly environment have meaningful directions for top managers and policy-makers of healthcare organizations to develop a green innovation culture to mitigate the risk and boost sustainable performance.Green HRM plays a critical role in achieving sustainable performance in the healthcare sector, where the demand for both efficient services and environmental stewardship is high. This innovative approach integrates environmental concerns into human resource policies to foster a workforce that is skilled, motivated, and environmentally conscious. Furthermore, effective risk management within this framework helps healthcare organizations ensure a safer and more sustainable operation. By embracing Green HRM, healthcare providers can improve their environmental performance and contribute to a healthier community and planet. This approach supports the global sustainability goals and positions healthcare organizations as leaders in health and environmental stewardship.
