Title: Characteristics of Sustainable Concrete Containing Metakaolin and Magnetized Water
Authors: Ahmed M. Elkerany, Mostafa M. Keshta, Mohamed M. Yousry Elshikh, Ahmed A. Elshami, Osama Youssf
Year: 2023
Venue: Buildings
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings13061430
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4379056642

Abstract:
In this study, fourteen sustainable concrete mixes containing metakaolin (MK) as supplementary cement material (SCM) and magnetized water (MW) as concrete mixing water were designed, prepared, tested, analyzed, and compared. The MK was used as a partial replacement of cement weight by 5%, 10%, and 20%, and as an additive to cement by 5%, 10%, and 20% of cement weight. The MW was used to fully replace tap water (TW) in concrete mixes and was prepared using two different magnetic fields of 1.4 tesla (T) and 1.6 T. This experimental research aimed to assess the characteristics of concrete manufactured with MK and MW. The mechanical and durability characteristics of fresh and hardened concrete were measured for the assessment. Microstructural and chemical analyses were carried out on selected materials and concrete mixes. The workability and compressive strength of the materials at 7, 28, and 365 days were measured, in addition to the splitting tensile strength at 28 days and the flexural strength at 28 days. The compressive strength at 365 days was conducted at 18 °C and 100 °C to study the effect of the applied variables on the concrete durability at different elevated temperatures. The microstructural and chemical analyses were conducted using a scanning electron microscope (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray (EDX), and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The results showed that using 10% MK as a cement additive was the best ratio in this study, which enhanced all the measured mechanical characteristics when the TW or MW was used. Using MW instead of TW in MK concrete increased all the mechanical properties measured at 28 days by about 32–35%. The results of the microstructural and chemical analyses supported the compressive strength increase by showing indications of more C-S-H gel production and less CH when using MW in MK concrete. In addition, fewer micro-cracks and pores, and relatively denser concrete, were detected when using MW with 10% MK as a cement additive.
