Title: A Scientific Perspective on Using Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Urban Development
Authors: Emanuel Rieder, Matthias Schmuck, Alexandru Țugui
Year: 2022
Venue: Big Data and Cognitive Computing
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc7010003
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313468498

Abstract:
Digital transformation (or digitalization) is the process of continuous further development of digital technologies (such as smart devices, cloud services, and Big Data) that have a lasting impact on our economy and society. In this manner, digitalization is a huge driver for permanent change, even in the field of Sustainable Urban Development. In the wake of digitalization, expectations are changing, placing pressure at the societal level on the design and development of smart environments for everything that means Sustainable Urban Development. In this sense, the solution is the integration of Artificial Intelligence into Sustainable Urban Development, because technology can simplify people’s lives. The aim of this paper is to ascertain which Sustainable Urban Development dimensions are taken into account when integrating Artificial Intelligence and what results can be achieved. These questions formed the basic framework for this research article. In order to make the current state of Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Urban Development as a snapshot visible, a systematic review of the current literature between 2012 and 2022 was conducted. The data were collected and analyzed using PRISMA. Based on the studies identified, we found a significant growth in studies, starting in 2018, and that Artificial Intelligence applications refer to the Sustainable Urban Development dimensions of environmental protection, economic development, social justice and equity, culture, and governance. The used Artificial Intelligence techniques in Sustainable Urban Development cover a broad field of Artificial Intelligence, such as Artificial Intelligence in general, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Artificial Neuronal Networks, Operations Research, Predictive Analytics, and Data Mining. However, with the integration of Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Urban Development, challenges are marked out. These include responsible municipal policies, awareness of data quality, privacy and data security, the formation of partnerships among stakeholders (e.g., local citizens, civil society, industry, and various levels of government), and transparency and traceability in the implementation and rollout of Artificial Intelligence. A first step was taken towards providing an overview of the possible applications of Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Urban Development. It was clearly shown that Artificial Intelligence is also gaining ground in this sector.
