Title: Editorial: Sustainable Development Goal 14 - Life Below Water: Towards a Sustainable Ocean
Authors: Brett W. Molony, Alex T. Ford, Ana M. M. Sequeira, Ángel Borja, Anna Zivian, Carol Robinson, Christian Lønborg, Elva Escobar‐Briones, Emanuele Di Lorenzo, Jesper H. Andersen, Marius Müller, Michelle Devlin, Pierre Failler, Sebastián Villasante, Simone Libralato, Tomaso Fortibuoni
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Marine Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2021.829610
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4214574609

Abstract:
In 2017, the United Nations proclaimed a Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, to be held from 2021 to 2030. The aim is to provide a common framework so ocean science can fully support countries' actions to sustainably manage the ocean and more particularly to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (https://www.oceandecade.org/about).With our Research Topic focusing on SDG 14: Life Below Water, we want to contribute to the Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development by identifying the most urgent questions still in need of answering and by highlighting the pathways that will lead us towards a sustainable ocean.To better summarize the ten targets associated with SDG14 and to display how all 17 SDGs are integrated, we are using the interactive SDG14 Transformation Map created by the World Economic Forum. The map allows users to visualize and understand most of the topics linked to SDG14 by displaying the connections and inter-dependencies between them, helping to support more informed decision-making (for more information, click here).Therefore, this Research Topic focuses on the following Key Issues:• Overfishing• Emerging Ocean Technologies• Pollution and the Oceans• Mass Extinction• Human Well-Being and Oceans• Climate Change Impacts• Shifting Ocean GovernanceWe welcome research that addresses the development and implementation of science-based solutions towards a sustainable ocean, supporting mitigation and adaptation policies to global change.Perspectives on how to provide better stewardship of ocean resources by designing and carrying out marine research supporting a sustainable Blue Economy are particularly encouraged.Submissions spanning natural and social sciences are accepted, including the following article types: Perspectives, Reviews, Policy &amp; Practice Reviews, and Policy Briefs. Original Research is also accepted if it presents solution/action-focused research.At the end of the Topic, we invite all contributors of this Topic to co-author a short Perspective article that summarizes the main action points that have emerged. The idea is to crystallize the most urgent questions that should be answered and the most critical problems that need addressing over the course of the UN Decade of Ocean Science.
