Title: Application of ECC as a Repair/Retrofit and Pavement/Bridge Deck Material for Sustainable Structures: A Review
Authors: Hasan Erhan Yücel, Maciej Dutkıewıcz, Fatih Yıldızhan
Year: 2022
Venue: Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ma15248752
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4311951232

Abstract:
Concrete structures cannot efficiently perform their functions over time due to chemical and physical external effects. Thus, enhancing the relationship between repair and aged structures, and also improving the durability properties of concrete is crucial in terms of sustainability. However, high costs, negative environmental effects, and incompatibility problems occur in repair/retrofit applications. Furthermore, three-quarters of the failures in the repaired/retrofitted structures are caused by a lack of repair durability. The need for repair in pavement/bridge decks is also frequently encountered, and early-age performance problems with repair materials cause pavement/bridge decks to be unavailable for certain periods of time. Engineered Cementitious Composite (ECC) can be effectively used as repair/retrofit and pavement/bridge deck material. It also has a minimal need for repair/retrofit thanks to its high durability properties. This article presents state-of-the-art research regarding the application of ECC as a repair/retrofit and pavement/bridge deck material. Studies in the literature show that the repair/retrofit properties of ECC outperform conventional concrete and steel fiber-reinforced concrete. ECC can be a solution to high early strength and drying shrinkage problems frequently encountered in the use of repair materials. It could also be used for different repair applications such as cast, sprayed, and trenchless rehabilitation. Moreover, ECC might fulfill specific requirements for pavement, pavement overlay, tunnel pavement, airfield pavement, and bridge deck. These superior performances are attributed to ECC's kink-crack trapping mechanism, uniquely large inelastic strain capacity, strain hardening, high tensile strain capacity, and multiple microcracking and ductile behaviors, especially bonding behavior and self-healing.
