Title: How can research contribute to the implementation of sustainable development goals? An interpretive review of SDG literature in management
Authors: Pascual Berrone, Horacio Enrique Rousseau, Joan E. Ricart, Esther Brito Ruiz, Andrea Giuliodori
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Management Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12331
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321373683

Abstract:
Abstract Organizations often face challenges in incorporating the sustainable development goals (SDGs) into their strategic agendas. Despite the availability of guidelines from leading practitioners, such guidance often lacks the scientific insights provided by academia. In this study, we examine the integration of scholarly management literature into practical guidelines for achieving the SDGs. To do so, we first examined nine practitioner guidelines offered by well‐reputed consulting firms, multilateral organizations and non‐profits, from which we identified four underlying general processes: prioritizing SDGs to the most relevant strategic goals of firms, contextualizing the SDGs to firms’ geographical and industrial contexts, collaborating with other organizations and stakeholders to make more impactful progress and innovating via business process remodelling. Using these four processes as an overarching framework, we then conducted an interpretive literature review to mine highly cited sustainable development‐related papers in the management field covering an 11‐year period (2010–2020). From these studies, we derived novel connections to all four stages to offer a more robust and scientifically informed process‐based framework for SDG adoption. We discuss multiple scholarly implications, including the importance of enhancing knowledge about the various phases of the SDG adoption model, developing research on understudied SDGs, and expanding theoretical and methodological approaches to SDG research. Additionally, we provide a more grounded SDG adoption model with significant practical implications.
