Title: Impact of sustainable tax revenue and expenditure on the achievement of sustainable development goals in some selected African countries
Authors: Kola Benson Ajeigbe, Fortune Ganda, Rawlings Obenembot Enowkenwa
Year: 2023
Venue: Environment Development and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-023-03730-y
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386571412

Abstract:
Abstract The study examined the impact of Sustainable Tax Revenue and Expenditure on the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals in African countries using secondary data. The dataset was extracted from the World Development Indicators database. The large gap between developed and developing countries when comparing the probability of them achieving the SDGs was the main motivation behind this study. Data retrieved from 45 countries comprised of both African and developed countries for the period 2010–2020 was analyzed using the Generalized Method of Moments technique. The results revealed that the coefficients of grants received, various forms of taxes, and other revenue have a positive effect on economic growth but a negative effect on poverty and unemployment for African and developed countries. This finding suggests that improvements in tax revenue generation, grants and other revenue accumulation across different sources boost economic performance and the welfare of individuals in the analyzed countries. The outcome is an indication that accumulating more grants from different sources will help to achieve sustainable development, improve financial stability, contributes to the economic growth and development in these countries. This study can guide policymakers, governments, international institutions, revenue bodies such as SARS and other stakeholders in their various planning and other decision-making endeavors. Governments and other policymakers must ensure the efficient generation and sustainable utilization of revenue generated from taxes and other revenues to spur the growth and development of their countries. They should have Growth-Sustainability-Oriented Fiscal Adjustment Programs and Sustainable Government Expenditure that can help push and redirect governments to achieve the SDGs in Africa.
