Title: Coordinated Reset Vibrotactile Stimulation Induces Sustained Cumulative Benefits in Parkinson’s Disease
Authors: Kristina J. Pfeifer, Justus A. Kromer, Alexander J. Cook, Traci Hornbeck, Erika A. Lim, Bruce J. P. Mortimer, Adam Fogarty, Summer S. Han, Rohit Dhall, Casey H. Halpern, Peter A. Tass
Year: 2021
Venue: Frontiers in Physiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2021.624317
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3143413984

Abstract:
Background Abnormal synchronization of neuronal activity in dopaminergic circuits is related to motor impairment in Parkinson’s disease (PD). Vibrotactile coordinated reset (vCR) fingertip stimulation aims to counteract excessive synchronization and induce sustained unlearning of pathologic synaptic connectivity and neuronal synchrony. Here, we report two clinical feasibility studies that examine the effect of regular and noisy vCR stimulation on PD motor symptoms. Additionally, in one clinical study (study 1), we examine cortical beta band power changes in the sensorimotor cortex. Lastly, we compare these clinical results in relation to our computational findings. Methods Study 1 examines six PD patients receiving noisy vCR stimulation and their cortical beta power changes after 3 months of daily therapy. Motor evaluations and at-rest electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings were assessed off medication pre- and post-noisy vCR. Study 2 follows three patients for 6+ months, two of whom received daily regular vCR and one patient from study 1 who received daily noisy vCR. Motor evaluations were taken at baseline, and follow-up visits were done approximately every 3 months. Computationally , in a network of leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons with spike timing-dependent plasticity, we study the differences between regular and noisy vCR by using a stimulus model that reproduces experimentally observed central neuronal phase locking. Results Clinically , in both studies, we observed significantly improved motor ability. EEG recordings observed from study 1 indicated a significant decrease in off-medication cortical sensorimotor high beta power (21—30 Hz) at rest after 3 months of daily noisy vCR therapy. Computationally , vCR and noisy vCR cause comparable parameter-robust long-lasting synaptic decoupling and neuronal desynchronization. Conclusion In these feasibility studies of eight PD patients, regular vCR and noisy vCR were well tolerated, produced no side effects, and delivered sustained cumulative improvement of motor performance, which is congruent with our computational findings. In study 1, reduction of high beta band power over the sensorimotor cortex may suggest noisy vCR is effectively modulating the beta band at the cortical level, which may play a role in improved motor ability. These encouraging therapeutic results enable us to properly plan a proof-of-concept study.
