Title: Consumers Towards the Goals of Sustainable Development: Attitudes and Typology
Authors: Grzegorz Maciejewski, Dawid Lesznik
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su141710558
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4293224841

Abstract:
The aim of this paper is to determine the level of knowledge of the categories of sustainable development and consumers’ attitudes towards concept, assumptions, and principles of sustainable development in Polish society. The article also attempts to distinguish homogeneous clusters of consumers, based on their attitudes toward the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The text is based on the results of the original empirical research carried out by the authors in November 2020 on a sample of 1045 adult consumers from all over Poland. The research used an online survey technique. To determine the types of consumers, 17 diagnostic variables (goals of sustainable development) were adopted. Cluster analysis was used to distinguish the types of consumers, whereas the number of clusters was determined using the hierarchical Ward method with the square of the Euclidean distance. The individual objects were classified into clusters with the help of the non-hierarchical k-means method. The conducted analyses enabled the authors to distinguish three relatively homogeneous types of consumers based on their attitudes towards the sustainable development goals, namely: informed apologists, moderate supporters, and uninformed critics. The consumer types described in the article may constitute the basis for market segmentation for companies offering consumer goods and services. The article also presents the level of awareness of the sustainable development goals in Polish society and the level of their acceptance. In addition, the presented research results conducted in Poland may constitute the basis for implementation of similar research in other countries. In the case of many countries and societies, there is a lack of knowledge about the types of consumers based on their attitudes towards the idea of sustainable development; therefore, it can be concluded that the presented research results contribute to the theory of consumer behavior.
