Title: Exploring the synergistic effect of fly ash and jute fiber on the fresh, mechanical and non-destructive characteristics of sustainable concrete
Authors: Md. Adnan Hossain, Shuvo Dip Datta, Abu Sayed Mohammad Akid, Md. Habibur Rahman Sobuz, Md. Saiful Islam
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e21708
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388163433

Abstract:
The utilization of waste fly ash and natural jute fiber has drawn attention to producing sustainable concrete. However, there is a lack of studies to analyze the synergistic effect of jute fiber and fly ash on the properties of concrete. Hence, the aim of this study is to investigate the combined effect of fly ash concentration and the different sizes of jute fiber on the fresh, hardened, and non-destructive testing properties of concrete. Concerning the purpose, the concrete mixes were prepared with 0.2 % and 0.4 % jute fiber incorporating 0 %, 5 %, 10 %, and 15 % replacement of cement by fly ash in concrete. For the assessment of properties, slump, density, and compacting factor test was conducted at the fresh state of concrete, whereas mechanical properties such as compressive, splitting tensile, and flexure strength test were conducted at 7 and 28 days. In addition, the non-destructive test (NDT) was also carried out to predict the destructive compressive strength by rebound hammer at 28 days. The microstructure property of optimum mix concrete was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). It is observed that the incorporation of jute fiber decreased the slump, density, and compacting factor but increased the compressive, splitting tensile, and flexure strength, whereas the fly ash improved both fresh and hardened properties. Compared to the standard mix, fly ash-based JFRC mixtures have compressive strength improvements varying from 1.7 % to 25.9 %. The 10 % fly ash and 0.2 % volume of jute fiber exhibited a maximum of 11.64 % and 10.72 % splitting tensile and flexural strength enhancement at 28 days, respecting the control mix. In addition, the NDT strength assessment obtained 5.5 % less than destructive strength on average. From the SEM point of view, it is obtained that the 10 % fly ash with 0.2 % jute fiber composition matrix exhibits a better bonding interface and the cracking resistance nature of the concrete mix.
