Title: Understanding the impediments to sustainable structural retrofit of existing buildings in the UK
Authors: Jamiu A. Dauda, Saheed Ajayi
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Building Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2022.105168
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4293340752

Abstract:
Structural retrofit of existing buildings for reuse remained one of the key steps toward decarbonisation of the existing housing stocks in the UK. This implies that any structural retrofitting procedure should aim at sustainability by ensuring net reduction in energy use with minimum cost, environmental and social impact. However, several factors impede the attainment of sustainable structural retrofit programs. In this study, quantitative data collection and exploratory factor analysis were used to investigate the factors that impede achieving sustainability in structural retrofitting of existing buildings. The study conducted a review of pertinent literature to draw up a list of potential impediments to sustainable structural retrofit. The lists were used to form Likert scale questionnaire that was administered to 126 professionals within the built environment sector in the UK. The data collected were subjected to reliability analysis and exploratory factor analysis using the SPSS IBM Statistics v24. The analysis revealed that there are four groups of barriers that impede sustainability in structural retrofitting of existing buildings. These are (i) cultural barriers involving factors that are characterised by human behaviour and interest; (ii) economic barriers involving cost functions; (iii) technical knowledge barriers involving education & skills factors and (iv) regulatory barriers involving legislation and policies around retrofitting old buildings. The findings of this study contribute to the broader discussion of sustainability within the built environment by increasing awareness of the key barriers to overcome to promote sustainable structural retrofit of existing buildings.
