Title: The prospects of biofloc technology (BFT) for sustainable aquaculture development
Authors: Erick Ogello, Nicholas Outa, Kevin Obiero, Domitila Kyule, Jonathan Munguti
Year: 2021
Venue: Scientific African
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sciaf.2021.e01053
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3212063218

Abstract:
As capture fishery sector continues to decline, aquaculture industry must be accelerated to bridge the fish supply gap especially in the developing countries. However, in most developing countries, aquaculture sector is characterized by low productivity due to inefficient technologies, hence the need for innovative aqua-technologies that can stimulate back yard fish production, for enhanced livelihood security among smallholder farmers. In aquaculture, biofloc technology (BFT) is considered as an innovative culture system with great potential for fish production. The BFT uses the principle of nutrient cycling through complex bio-pathways to produce natural food for fish. The working machines are the bacterial flocs that convert pond bio-wastes into edible nutrients for the cultured animals. This reduces feed cost by about 30% and ensures higher profitability. BFT is useful for mass production of live food resources, which are indispensable for successful larviculture in hatcheries. Bioflocs enhance gonad formation and ovary development in fish broodstock, thus improving reproduction of fish. Bioflocs are also natural biosecurity agents that reduce the use of antibiotics, which have various ecological consequences in aquaculture environment. Some species of bacteria are useful in the process of atmospheric CO2 sequestration thus mitigating the effects of green-house-gasses (GHG). This article has articulated step-wise processes of establishing BFT and demonstrated its potential to achieving ‘triple win’ objectives of; a) increasing fish production, b) enhancing resilience of fish production systems, and c) efficient use of energy, water, land, and reduction of GHG emissions.
