Title: Sustaining the healthcare systems through the conceptual of biomedical engineering: A study with recent and future potentials
Authors: Mohd Javaid, Abid Haleem, Ravi Pratap Singh, Rajiv Suman
Year: 2022
Venue: Biomedical Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bmt.2022.11.004
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4309382735

Abstract:
Biomedical engineering is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering & technology that combines biomedical sciences with engineering principles. This discipline covers broad areas where biomedical engineers are involved in the fields of medicine, regenerative medicine & associated areas and in developing better products and services. Biomedical engineering offers software for simulation, 3D motion-catching and printing technologies for computer modelling and engineering. The discipline of biomedical engineering is a fast-moving, cross-disciplinary field covering medicine, biology, chemistry, engineering, nanotechnology and informatics. Innovative medical gadgets, vaccinations, disease control products, robotics, and algorithms that enhance human health worldwide are being developed by bioengineers. Living tissues are formed of bioactive cells and stored in regulated circumstances on biodegradable scaffolds. The use of biomedical engineering concepts is to address issues with healthcare. Biomedical engineers create medical tools and procedures that enhance people's health by combining their understanding of engineering, virology, and healthcare. Blood glucose monitoring, pacemakers, and prosthetic limbs are examples of biomedical equipment. The main purpose of this paper is to study Biomedical Engineering and its need in healthcare. The paper discusses various innovations and research aspects of Biomedical Engineering in the healthcare domain. The paper further identified and discussed significant applications of Biomedical engineering for healthcare. Biomedical engineering is a fascinating field of life science that can change healthcare and open the door to new technologies in prostheses, operating equipment, diagnoses, imaging and more. The multidisciplinary area of biomedical technology provides better possibilities for biological research and engineering and changes how we interact with the world.
