Title: Nursing students' and educators' perspectives on sustainability and climate change: An integrative review
Authors: Jennie Aronsson, Andy Nichols, Paul Warwick, Marie Elf
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Advanced Nursing
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jan.15950
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388672090

Abstract:
AIM: To identify and synthesize research on the awareness, attitudes and action related to sustainability and climate change from the perspective of nursing students and educators globally. DESIGN: Integrative review. METHODS: The review was guided by Whittemore and Knafl. Included studies were appraised using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. A deductive content analysis based on Elo and Kyngäs' methodology was employed. DATA SOURCES: CINAHL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, British Education Index, GreenFILE and Scopus were searched up to the 8th November 2022. RESULTS: Thirty-two studies were included in the review. Two studies included nursing educators in their samples, the rest focused solely on students. Findings suggest that whilst some students were aware of sustainability issues and felt that nurses have a responsibility to mitigate climate change, others showed limited awareness and believed that nurses have more important priorities. A global interest was seen among students for increased curricular content related to sustainability and climate change. Waste management and education of others were suggested actions students can take; however, barriers included lack of confidence and limited power. CONCLUSION: There is a need for sustainability education within nursing curricula, accompanied by student support. IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROFESSION: The review acts as a starting point to make sustainable healthcare and climate change mitigation integral aspects of nursing. IMPACT: Sustainability education within nursing curricula can positively impact on sustainable healthcare and climate change mitigation. More research is needed on the perspectives of nursing educators. REPORTING METHOD: The review is reported according to the PRISMA guidelines. PATIENT OR PUBLIC CONTRIBUTION: No Patient or Public Contribution.
