Title: Volatile capture technology in sustainable anaesthetic practice: a narrative review
Authors: Jonathan Gandhi, Kenneth L. Barker, Sarah Cross, Andrew Goddard, Madhvi Vaghela, Andrew Cooper
Year: 2024
Venue: Anaesthesia
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/anae.16207
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4390744283

Abstract:
Anaesthetic practice contributes to climate change. Volatile capture technology, typically based on adsorption to a carbon- or silica-based substrate, has the potential to mitigate some of the harmful effects of using halogenated hydrocarbons. Anaesthetists have a professional responsibility to use anaesthetic agents which offer the greatest safety and clinical benefit with the lowest financial cost and environmental impacts. Inhalational anaesthetics should be used at an appropriate concentration with a minimal fresh gas flow via a circle system to minimise unnecessary waste. Once practice efficiencies have been maximised, only then should technical solutions such as volatile capture be employed. In this narrative review, we focus on the available literature relating to volatile capture technology, obtained via a targeted literature search and through contacting manufacturers and researchers. We found six studies focusing on the Blue-Zone Technologies Deltasorb®, SageTech Medical SID and Baxter/ZeoSys CONTRAfluran™ volatile capture systems. Though laboratory analyses of available systems suggest that > 95% in vitro mass transfer is possible for all three systems, the in vivo results for capture efficiency vary from 25% to 73%. Currently, there is no financial incentive for healthcare organisations to capture waste anaesthetic gases, and so the value of volatile capture technology requires quantification. System-level organisations, such as Greener NHS, are best positioned to commission such evaluations and make policy decisions to guide investment. Further research using volatile capture technology in real-world settings is necessary and we highlight some priority research questions to improve our understanding of the utility of this group of technologies.
