Title: Virtual Reality as a Tool for Sustainable Training and Education of Employees in Industrial Enterprises
Authors: Věroslav Holuša, Michal Vaněk, Filip Beneš, Jiří Švub, Pavel Staša
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151712886
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386222601

Abstract:
The paper deals with the possibilities of using Virtual Reality in the training and safety of enterprises active in the raw materials industry. It examines the influence and impact on their employees. The main impetus for starting research in this area has been a need for more use of the full potential of Virtual Reality in the industrial sector. Virtual Reality (VR) has become a promising education and employee training tool. It provides an immersive and interactive learning environment, allowing users to engage with simulations, scenarios, and simulations in real time. VR can facilitate the acquisition of practical skills, help learners retain information better, and foster the development of soft skills, such as communication, teamwork, and leadership. The paper is divided into the following sections. The first two are devoted to the introduction to the issue and a review of the literature. The materials and methods section describes the possibilities of using photogrammetry to create virtual scenes and 3D models usable in Virtual Reality. This section also describes the research methods used to evaluate the approach for teaching and training employees. The last two sections evaluate and discuss the results achieved. Having regarded the research realized, it was found that our approach to researching the education of employees and the development of their skills brings excellent benefits and, compared to the traditional educational approach, is much more time-efficient so that employees can improve their work habits and behavior in a relatively short period. In employee training, VR can simulate real-life scenarios, providing workers with hands-on experience in a safe, controlled environment. This technology can also help companies save time and resources, eliminating the need for travel and reducing expenditure on expensive equipment. However, despite its many benefits, VR in education and training can be cost-demanding and requires specialized hardware and software, which may limit its widespread adoption.
