Title: Gender equality and sustainable development: A cross-country study on women's contribution to the adoption of the climate-smart agriculture in Sub-Saharan Africa
Authors: Chiara Perelli, Luca Cacchiarelli, Valentina Peveri, Giacomo Branca
Year: 2024
Venue: Ecological Economics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2024.108145
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392213884

Abstract:
Women face severe gender-specific constraints and have minimal part in the farm decision-making systems in sub-Saharan Africa. This leads to additional barriers in the adoption of climate-smart agriculture (CSA) technologies. This paper contributes to the gender debate by focusing on intra-household gender dynamics that influence the adaptive capacities of small-holder farmers. Using a multi-country approach, and considering Ethiopia, Malawi, South Africa , and Tanzania as case studies , an endogenous-switching poisson regression model was conducted to (i) assess factors influencing the probability of women's engagement in agricultural technology decision-making; (ii) ascertain the effect of women's participation in farm decision-making on climate-smart agriculture adoption. The findings indicate a degree of complexity in women's roles within their communities and family contexts. While in Malawi women participating in the farm decision-making process positively affects CSA adoption, in the other countries their role remains marginal or negatively related with farm sustainability . Such women's empowerment is indeed influenced by the existence of social, regulatory, and cultural elements that uniquely define the considered countries. Context-specific policies that prioritize rural-women, youths, and other marginalized groups can enhance CSA adoption and thereby contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals such as gender equality, climate action and zero hunger in developing contexts. • The CSA adoption by women is influenced by their involvement in intra-household decision-making. • In Malawi, women's involvement in decision-making positively influences CSA adoption. • Socio-cultural drivers of women involvment in decision-making settings are context-specific. • In Malawi, Tanzania and South Africa land ownership influences women's authority. • CSA policies should be context-sensitive and prioritize marginalized groups.
