Title: A review on emerging water contaminants and the application of sustainable removal technologies
Authors: Rohitashw Kumar, Mahrukh Qureshi, Dinesh Kumar Vishwakarma, Nadhir Al‐Ansari, Alban Kuriqi, Ahmed Elbeltagi, Anuj Saraswat
Year: 2022
Venue: Case Studies in Chemical and Environmental Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cscee.2022.100219
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281786850

Abstract:
Emerging contaminants (ECs) are synthetic or naturally occurring chemicals or any microorganisms that are not commonly monitored in the environment but have the potential to enter the environment and cause known or suspected adverse ecological or human health effects. The issue of ECs persistent in the environment and can disrupt the physiology of target receptors, they are recognized as Contaminants of emerging environmental concerns. The prominent classes of ECs include pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs), plasticizers, surfactants, fire retardants, nanomaterials, and pesticides. Several ECs have been recognized as endocrine disruptive compounds (EDCs) due to their deleterious effects on endocrine systems (EDCs). The contaminants present in the aquatic environment resources are a major cause of concern for human health and the environment and safety concern. These contaminations have risen into a major threat to the water distribution system. The impact of emerging contaminants (ECs) such as medicines, x-ray media, endocrine disruptors, insecticides, and personal care items has been reported in surface water, wastewater, and groundwater sources worldwide in recent years. Various techniques have been explored for ECs degradation and removal to mitigate their harmful effect. Numerous prior or continuing investigations have focused on the degradation and removal of contaminants using a variety of treatment techniques, including (1) physical, (2) chemical, and (3) biological. However, experimental data is insufficient to provide precise predictions regarding the mechanistic degradation and removal fate of ECs across various in-practice systems. The membrane technology can remove particles as fine as 10 μm and colloidal particles, It can be effectively eliminated by up to 99% through the use of MBR and treatment technologies such as reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration, or nanofiltration at concentrations up to 5 g/liter. In this paper, the emerging contaminants overview, their sources, and their removal by application of various treatments based on recent studies have been presented.
