Title: Redox Regulation by Priming Agents Toward a Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Durgesh Kumar Tripathi, Javaid Akhter Bhat, Chrystalla Antoniou, Nidhi Kandhol, Vijay Pratap Singh, Alisdair R. Fernie, Vasileios Fotopoulos
Year: 2024
Venue: Plant and Cell Physiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcae031
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394621365

Abstract:
Plants are sessile organisms that are often subjected to a multitude of environmental stresses, with the occurrence of these events being further intensified by global climate change. Crop species therefore require specific adaptations to tolerate climatic variability for sustainable food production. Plant stress results in excess accumulation of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative stress and loss of cellular redox balance in the plant cells. Moreover, enhancement of cellular oxidation as well as oxidative signals has been recently recognized as crucial players in plant growth regulation under stress conditions. Multiple roles of redox regulation in crop production have been well documented, and major emphasis has focused on key redox-regulated proteins and non-protein molecules, such as NAD(P)H, glutathione, peroxiredoxins, glutaredoxins, ascorbate, thioredoxins and reduced ferredoxin. These have been widely implicated in the regulation of (epi)genetic factors modulating growth and health of crop plants, with an agricultural context. In this regard, priming with the employment of chemical and biological agents has emerged as a fascinating approach to improve plant tolerance against various abiotic and biotic stressors. Priming in plants is a physiological process, where prior exposure to specific stressors induces a state of heightened alertness, enabling a more rapid and effective defense response upon subsequent encounters with similar challenges. Priming is reported to play a crucial role in the modulation of cellular redox homeostasis, maximizing crop productivity under stress conditions and thus achieving yield security. By taking this into consideration, the present review is an up-to-date critical evaluation of promising plant priming technologies and their role in the regulation of redox components toward enhanced plant adaptations to extreme unfavorable environmental conditions. The challenges and opportunities of plant priming are discussed, with an aim of encouraging future research in this field toward effective application of priming in stress management in crops including horticultural species.
