Title: The Impact of Entrepreneurship Curriculum with Teaching Models on Sustainable Development of Entrepreneurial Mindset among Higher Education Students in China: The Moderating Role of the Entrepreneurial Climate at the Institution
Authors: Jun Cui
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13147950
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3185054045

Abstract:
There has been considerable attention on the role of entrepreneurship education and outcomes from students’ sustainable development, predominantly entrepreneurial intentions. However, research has tended to overlook novel and promising, yet under-examined areas, such as the entrepreneurial mindset (EM), its link with entrepreneurship education, and the contextual factor. Drawing on social cognitive and teaching model theory, we aimed at addressing these gaps by examining the impact of entrepreneurship curriculum (EC) with different teaching models (supply, demand, competence) on EM, as well as the moderating role of the entrepreneurial climate of the higher education institution. Using a cross-sectional survey design, data were collected in 15 higher education institutions in China. A sample of 739 students were used to test our hypotheses. The results suggest that all the entrepreneurial teaching models and mindset are positively related (though the demand model is the strongest predictor). Furthermore, the results establish that the entrepreneurial climate at the institution plays a moderating role between EC and EM, though it is the strongest for the competence teaching model. This paper contributes to the theoretical conceptualization of the EC–EM relationship and the deep understanding on “how” and “when” the teaching models in EC influence EM. Our study also expanded social cognitive theory (SCT) application in the context of higher entrepreneurship education by combining and confirming educational (specific teaching models), cognitive (EM), and institutional factors (entrepreneurial climate). Our research implies that universities and entrepreneurial program developers should pay attention to the selection of the right teaching models and provide a supportive entrepreneurial climate to optimize students’ EM, thus promoting their sustainable development.
