Title: Integrating Circular Economy Principles in Modular Construction to Enhance Sustainability
Authors: Garusinghe Dewa Ayesha Udari Garusinghe, B.A.K.S. Perera, Umesha Sasanthi Weerapperuma
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151511730
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385400518

Abstract:
Modular construction (MC) has gained attention due to its potential for fast construction, reduced construction waste, and lower environmental impact while having several other issues on stimulating sustainability. The circular economy (CE) focuses on better resource management through a closed-loop system. Even though MC enhances sustainable practice, several pitfalls barricade sustainability in MC (high initial investment, design consideration, and technology challenges). Nevertheless, the synergy between CE and MC has not been investigated in past studies to address the issues in MC to achieve sustainability. This study investigates the integration of CE principles in MC to enhance sustainability. This study used a qualitative approach via the Delphi technique by conducting three semi-structured expert interview rounds with the use of a purposive sampling method. The collected data were analysed using manual content analysis. This study identified nine notable issues in MC to achieve sustainability, and all CE 9-R (rethink, refuse, reduce, reuse, repair, refurbish, remanufacture, recycle, and recover) principles could address those identified issues. Accordingly, thirty implementation strategies were recognised to fill the gap between the problems in MC and the potential of CE principles to solve the issues. The results provide insights for construction practitioners, policymakers, and researchers on integrating CE principles into MC processes to achieve sustainability goals. Ultimately, this study highlights the significance of a holistic approach by theoretically combining MC and CE principles as a benchmark for future studies. As a contribution, CE strives to make the planet a safe place to live by combatting resource depletion.
