Title: An Integrated Sustainable Construction Project’s Critical Success Factors (ISCSFs)
Authors: Ahmed S. El Touny, Ahmed H. Ibrahim, Hossam H. Mohamed
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13158629
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3190552465

Abstract:
A construction project is a dynamic and complex process that involves the identification and accurate fulfillment of the predetermined needs and requirements of the clients by the project team. There are many challenges and constraints that prevent the achievement of these predetermined and various requirements effectively and successfully, so the project team must face and overcome these challenges by identifying all the factors that help the project’s success. However, it is still unclear how to measure success for Egyptian construction projects. Despite the fact that several lists of literature-based factors have been compiled, the individual factors appear to be tabulated rather than grouped according to some criteria to aid in the analysis of their interactions and potential consequences. As such, the objective presented in this paper was to identify and prioritize integrated sustainable critical success factors (ISCSFs) that influence the performance of Egyptian construction projects to ensure successful construction projects. Critical success factors were identified and grouped into 2 major categories—(1) internal related factors and (2) external related factors—and 10 subcategories—(1) company-related factors; (2) project-related factors; (3) project management related factors; (4) resource/procurement-related factors (labors, materials, equipment and subcontractors); (5) human capital-related factors; (6) support-related factors (financial, human resources, security and legal and administration); (7) stakeholder-related factors (clients, consultants, project managers and end-users); (8) innovation, learning and growth-related factors; (9) country-related factors; and (10) industry-related factors in three distinct stages. In total, 140 factors were gathered from the literature review in the first stage. In the second stage, a brainstorming session was held in order to reduce the number of those factors and focus on the most important ones that influence project success; thus, 100 factors were identified, filtered and developed. In the third stage, a questionnaire was created based on the significant factors identified. As a result, the 40 most important factors influencing the success of performance of construction projects have been identified, which are integrated between all factors (internal and external) and take into account the three pillars of sustainability (economic, social and environmental) as a decision-making tool to evaluate and improve project performance.
