Title: Technological innovation toward sustainability in manufacturing organizations: A circular economy perspective
Authors: Ashish Dwivedi, Claudio Sassanelli, Dindayal Agrawal, Ernesto D.R. Santibañez González, Idiano D’Adamo
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Chemistry and Pharmacy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scp.2023.101211
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385437140

Abstract:
Technological innovation has been widely recognized both as a trigger and catalyzer towards sustainability. However, hardly ever manufacturing companies are ready and mature enough to employ technological innovations in their processes and business. Given the relevance of technological innovation in pursuing sustainability, it is hard to comprehend what are the prominent factors affecting the role of technological innovation to address sustainability and prioritize them. Therefore, the prime purpose of this study, applied to an emerging economy, is to analyze the contributions of technological innovation toward sustainability in manufacturing organizations with a circular economy (CE) perspective. To address this objective, a questionnaire has been developed and conducted, also using the Grey VIKOR method and a sensitivity analysis. The findings from the study illustrate that entrepreneurship direction towards innovation and market direction towards innovation are the two potential factors of technological innovation towards sustainability. The implications highlight that CE, sustainable education and stakeholder engagement solutions can be crucial to the competitiveness of a developing country's manufacturing businesses. • This work analyses the role of technological innovation to address sustainability. • Entrepreneurship direction towards innovation is a predominant factor. • Market direction towards innovation is a predominant factor. • Circular economy supports competitiveness for businesses in developing countries. • Sustainability education and stakeholder engagement can complement circular models.
