Title: A Review on Recent Advances in the Energy Efficiency of Machining Processes for Sustainability
Authors: Shailendra Pawanr, Kapil Gupta
Year: 2024
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en17153659
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400981987

Abstract:
The pursuit of energy efficiency in machining processes is a critical aspect of sustainable manufacturing. A significant portion of global energy consumption is by the industrial sector; thus, improving the energy efficiency of machining processes can lead to substantial environmental and economic benefits. The present study reviews the recent advancement made for improving the energy efficiency of machining processes. First the energy consumption of the machining processes was explored and then the key areas and developments in their energy consumption modeling were identified. Following this, the review explores various strategies for achieving energy savings in machining. These strategies include energy-efficient machine tools, the accurate modeling of the energy consumption of machining processes, the implementation of optimization techniques and the application of artificial intelligence (AI). Additionally, the review highlights the potential of AI in further reducing energy consumption within machining operations and achieving energy efficiency. A review of these energy-saving strategies in machining processes reveals impressive potential for significant reductions in energy consumption: energy-efficient design can achieve up to a 45% reduction, optimizing cutting parameters may minimize consumption by around 40%, optimizing tool paths can reduce consumption by approximately 50%, optimizing non-cutting energy consumption and sequencing can lead to savings of about 30% and employing AI shows promising energy efficiency improvements of around 20%. Overall, the present review offers valuable insights into recent advancements in making machining processes more energy-efficient. It identifies key areas where significant energy savings can be achieved.
