Title: Deep Neural Network for Predicting Changing Market Demands in the Energy Sector for a Sustainable Economy
Authors: Wen Мingming, Changshi Zhou, Kostіantyn Mamonov
Year: 2023
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en16052407
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4323045790

Abstract:
Increasing access to power, enhancing clean cooking fuels, decreasing wasteful energy subsidies, and limiting fatal air pollution are just a few of the sustainable development goals that all revolve around energy (E). Energy-specific sustainable development objectives were a turning point in the global shift towards a more sustainable and just system. By understanding energy resources, markets, regulations, and scientific studies, the country can progress more quickly towards a sustainable economy (SE). Investment in renewable energy industries is hampered by institutional obstacles such as market-controlled procedures and inconsistent supporting policies. Power plant building is currently incompatible with existing transmission and distribution networks, posing significant risks to investors. Deep neural networks (DNN) are specifically investigated in this article for energy demand forecasting at the individual building level. Other relevant information is supplied into fully connected layers along with the convolutional output. A single customer’s power usage data were used and analyzed for the final fuel and electricity consumption by various energy sources and consumer groups to test the DNN-SE technique. The energy intensity and labor productivity indexes for several economic sectors are displayed. A wide range of economic activities are examined to determine their impact on environmental pollution indicators, greenhouse gas emissions, and other air pollutants. A more effective and comprehensive energy efficiency strategy should be implemented to lower emission levels at lower prices. Research-based conclusions must be enhanced to help policymaking. The results of the experiment using the proposed method show that it is possible to predict 98.1%, grow at 96.8%, meet 98.5% of electricity demand, use 97.6% of power, and have a renewable energy ratio of 96.2%.
