Title: Sustainable Energy Research Trend: A Bibliometric Analysis Using VOSviewer, RStudio Bibliometrix, and CiteSpace Software Tools
Authors: Abidin KEMEÇ, Ayşenur Altınay
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15043618
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321091273

Abstract:
Purpose: To systematically present the publication trends related to sustainable energy, which is an interdisciplinary concept. Design/methodology/approach: This study performed bibliometric analysis to investigate sustainable energy research between 1980 and 2022 using a sample of 1498 research papers from the Web of Science (WoS) databases, with only published articles on sustainable energy. Findings: A bibliometric analysis reveals trends in sustainable energy research publications, showing sustainable energy as an emerging topic and trends in sustainability and energy research. However, it seems that sustainable energy is still a niche area of study. Within the scope of the study, 2857 publications were included in the analysis. Of the publications included in the analysis, 1498 are articles and 1089 are other publication types. As a result of the analysis, the number of articles on the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement has significantly increased since 2015. In 2022, the highest number was reached. It is seen that this finding is related to energy supply security and the reflections of geopolitical risks on it. The keyword “sustainable energy” stands out as the most frequently used keyword. Research limitations/implications: This research analysis is based on data from the Web of Science database only; there will be some shortcomings in the findings. Originality/Value: This research contributes to the field by exploring current developments in the field of sustainable energy, highlighting current gaps in the literature, and recommending future research in this field. The fact that the keywords “sustainable energy”, “renewable energy”, “sustainability”, and “sustainable development” are frequently included in the literature shows that interdisciplinary academic studies in these fields are of great importance.
