Title: Sustainable protein production through genetic engineering of cyanobacteria and use of atmospheric N2 gas
Authors: Taufiq Nawaz, Liping Gu, Shah Fahad, Shah Saud, Matthew Tom Harrison, Ruanbao Zhou
Year: 2024
Venue: Food and Energy Security
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/fes3.536
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392921833

Abstract:
Abstract This review explores the potential of genetically engineering cyanobacteria with the aim of synthesizing high‐value protein directly from atmospheric nitrogen. The article examines numerous techniques that may enhance protein synthesis in cyanobacteria, and discusses advantages, barriers, and opportunities for this strategy going forward. Genetic manipulation of cyanobacteria shows promise in sustainably raising protein production via reduced greenhouse gas emissions and lower dependence on synthetic fertilizers, but also potentially fewer environmental implications traditionally caused by conventional protein production methods. The article uncovers many difficulties in genetically modifying cyanobacteria for protein production. For example, genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have legal and regulatory ramifications that must be accounted for if ethical, moral and secure use of these technologies is to be ensured. Economic viability, too, must be evaluated, taking into consideration production costs, scalability, market demand and future market potential. We suggest that processing of cyanobacterial proteins in downstream stages need further development. Effective and economical methods are needed for protein extraction, purification, and formulation into commercially viable products. For successful application of cyanobacterial protein production at scale, such obstacles must be overcome. We conclude that genetic engineering of cyanobacteria for protein synthesis has a great deal of potential to offer a resource‐effective and sustainable replacement for the synthesis of high‐value proteins, so promoting a more sustainable and environmentally conscious future.
