Title: Sustained effect of prasinezumab on Parkinson’s disease motor progression in the open-label extension of the PASADENA trial
Authors: Gennaro Pagano, Annabelle Monnet, Adriana Reyes, Benjamin Ribba, Hanno Svoboda, Thomas Kustermann, Tanya Simuni, Ronald B. Postuma, Nicola Pavese, Fabrizio Stocchi, Kathrin Brockmann, Krzysztof Śmigórski, Valentina Gerbaldo, Paulo Fontoura, Rachelle S. Doody, Geoffrey A. Kerchner, Patrik Brundin, Kenneth Marek, Azad Bonni, Tania Nikolcheva, PASADENA Investigators, Prasinezumab Study Group
Year: 2024
Venue: Nature Medicine
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-024-03270-6
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403228604

Abstract:
The Phase II trial of Anti-alpha-Synuclein Antibody in Early Parkinson's Disease (PASADENA) is an ongoing double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of prasinezumab in early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD). During the double-blind period, prasinezumab-treated individuals showed less progression of motor signs (Movement Disorders Society-sponsored revision of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) Part III) than placebo-treated individuals. We evaluated whether the effect of prasinezumab on motor progression, assessed as a change in MDS-UPDRS Part III score in the OFF and ON states, and MDS-UPDRS Part II score, was sustained for 4 years from the start of the trial. We compared participants enrolled in the PASADENA open-label extension study with those enrolled in an external comparator arm derived from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative observational study. The PASADENA delayed-start (n = 94) and early-start (n = 177) groups showed a slower decline (a smaller increase in score) in MDS-UPDRS Part III scores in the OFF state (delayed start, -51%; early start, -65%), ON state (delayed start, -94%; early start, -118%) and MDS-UPDRS Part II (delayed start, -48%; early start, -40%) than did the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative external comparator (n = 303). This exploratory analysis, which requires confirmation in future studies, suggested that the effect of prasinezumab in slowing motor progression in PD may be sustained long term. PASADENA ClinicalTrials.gov no. NCT03100149 .
