Title: The role of sustainable energy and climate action plans: Synergies with regional sustainable development strategies for a local 2030 agenda
Authors: Alessandra Colocci, Eleonora Gioia, Cristina Casareale, Noemi Marchetti, Fausto Marincioni
Year: 2023
Venue: Environmental Development
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envdev.2023.100894
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4383197310

Abstract:
The current environmental and socio-economic crises call for urgent actions, the efficacy of which depend on the coordination among different levels of governance. Response strategies must be devised at different scales, ranging from the international to the local level. This paper explores local “Sustainable Energy and Climate Action Plans” as enacting tools of “Regional Strategies for Sustainable Development.” Starting from the assessment of the general situation in Italy, the study then focuses at the local level with the Municipality of Montemarciano in the Marche region (central Italy), selected because partner of the EU Interreg project “RESPONSe.” Findings highlights that sustainability and climate issues are not homogeneously acknowledged throughout the Italian regions. There seems to be a significant north-south divide in the adoption of Regional Strategies, while Action Plans appear more scattered. Regional and municipal efforts are not fully aligned, given the lack of a clear relation between actions and policies. In contrast, the potential benefits of an effective coordination emerge within the specific case study of Montemarciano: not only the Action Plan seems able to support the achievement of energy and climate objectives, but it might also contribute to other areas, such as health, water and biodiversity. Given the similar structure, timing and background, the examined local Action Plan appears to support the Regional Strategy pushing forwards the overall sustainable development of the area. Such synergy would also foster the partnership among stakeholders strongly advocated at the international level.
