Title: Assessing the sustainability capacity of evidence-based programs in community and health settings
Authors: Caren Bacon, Sara Malone, Kim Prewitt, Rachel Hackett, Molly Hastings, Sarah Dexter, Douglas A. Luke
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Health Services
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/frhs.2022.1004167
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4310984252

Abstract:
Background: Within many public health settings, there remain large challenges to sustaining evidence-based practices. The Program Sustainability Assessment Tool has been developed and validated to measure sustainability capacity of public health, social service, and educational programs. This paper describes how this tool was utilized between January 2014 and January 2019. We describe characteristics of programs that are associated with increased capacity for sustainability and ultimately describe the utility of the PSAT in sustainability research and practice. Methods: The PSAT is comprised of 8 subscales, measuring sustainability capacity in eight distinct conceptual domains. Each subscale is made up of five items, all assessed on a 7-point Likert scale. Data were obtained from persons who used the PSAT on the online website (https://sustaintool.org/), from 2014 to 2019. In addition to the PSAT scale, participants were asked about four program-level characteristics. The resulting dataset includes 5,706 individual assessments reporting on 2,892 programs. Results: < 0.001). Specifically, smaller programs (with staff sizes of ten or below) consistently reported lower program sustainability capacity. Capacity was not associated with program age and did not vary significantly by program level. Discussion: The PSAT maintained its excellent reliability when tested with a large and diverse sample over time. Initial criterion validity was explored through the assessment of program characteristics, including program type and program size. The data collected reinforces the ability of the PSAT to assess sustainability capacity for a wide variety of public health and social programs.
