Title: Synthesis and characterization of lotus seed protein‐based curcumin microcapsules with enhanced solubility, stability, and sustained release
Authors: Ya Su, Ying Chen, Li Zhang, Benu Adhikari, Baoguo Xu, Jianlin Li, Tiesong Zheng
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of the Science of Food and Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.11560
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3202926685

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Lotus seed protein (LSP) was extracted from lotus seed and used to encapsulate curcumin with or without complexing with pectin. The physicochemical properties of LSP-based microcapsules, including solubility, stability, and in vitro sustained release, were determined. The mechanism of interaction between curcumin, LSP, and pectin was revealed. RESULTS: . The curcumin in curcumin-LSP and curcumin-LSP-pectin powder particles achieved a solubility of 75.15% and 81.39%, respectively, which was a remarkable enhancement. The microencapsulation with LSP and LSP-pectin matrix showed a significant improvement in the antioxidant activity, photostability, thermostability, and storage stability of free curcumin. The microencapsulated curcumin showed sustained control release at the gastric stage and burst-type release in the subsequent intestinal stage, presenting cumulative release rates of 64.3% and 72.4% from curcumin-LSP and curcumin-LSP-pectin particles after gastrointestinal digestion. The LSP-pectin complex produced microcapsules with higher solubility, smaller particle size, enhanced physicochemical stability, and increased bioaccessibility. Fourier transform infrared, circular dichroism spectra, and differential scanning calorimetry data indicated that the encapsulated curcumin interacted with LSP and pectin mainly through hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic, and electrostatic interactions. CONCLUSION: This work shows that LSP can be an alternative encapsulant for the delivery of hydrophobic nutraceuticals with enhanced solubility, stability, and sustained release. The results may contribute to the design of novel food-grade delivery systems based on LSP vehicles, thereby broadening the applications of LSP in the fields of functional food. © 2021 Society of Chemical Industry.
