Title: Regenerative business strategies: A database and typology to inspire business experimentation towards sustainability
Authors: Ankita Das, Nancy Bocken
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainable Production and Consumption
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2024.06.024
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400087439

Abstract:
In a time marked by growing environmental and societal challenges, where multiple planetary boundaries are being crossed, the way we conduct business practices needs to be rethought. Regenerative business models offer a path towards a more responsible future by incorporating strategies that go beyond net zero and focus on actively restoring the natural and social systems they operate in, creating a more holistic net positive impact. To date, much of the research on this topic is conceptual and there is a need for more empirical insights on how regenerative strategies can be implemented. This study uses purposive sampling to conduct a comprehensive practice review of 84 regenerative business cases from 15 sectors, to build the novel Regenerative Business Case Database. A typology of six archetypal regenerative business strategies was also derived, including: (1) regenerative leadership, (2) nature regeneration, (3) social regeneration, (4) responsible sourcing, (5) human health & wellbeing focus, and (6) employee level focus. The predominant sectors with regenerative innovations were food, consumer goods and fashion. Many companies were found to be employing multiple strategies concurrently, while collaborating with local organisations. While some may argue that regenerative business strategies cannot be successful in a competitive market, the results contain examples of stable businesses pursuing regenerative strategies dating back to the 1870's. The aim of this study was to build a database and typology of successful regenerative business cases and strategies that can serve as inspiration for further business model experimentation. Future research could explore how innovations towards such business models develop, and what regulatory frameworks allow them to flourish.
