Title: Role of Intercropping in Sustainable Insect-Pest Management: A Review
Authors: Mohd Salim Mir, Amal Saxena, Raihana Habib Kanth, Waseem Raja, Khursheed Ahmad Dar, Syed Sheraz Mahdi, Tauseef A. Bhat, Nasir Bashir Naikoo, Aijaz Nazir, Zakir Amin, Tajamul Mansoor, May Zar Myint, Mohammad Rafiq Khan, Idrees Mohammad, Suhail Ahmad Mir
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Environment and Climate Change
DOI: https://doi.org/10.9734/ijecc/2022/v12i111390
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4307631043

Abstract:
Reduced soil fertility and rising pest and disease pressures are contributing to the already serious problem of global food insecurity. Monoculture is the most labour and resource-intensive form of crop production around the globe. Unfortunately, monocultures are more vulnerable to pests, diseases, and weeds, so the expansion of this system is accompanied by a host of biological issues. Negative effects on the environment, human health, and ecosystem stability are all associated with monocropping because it relies so heavily on the use of chemical plant protection products of all generations of pesticides. Although crop production strategies are important for overall enhancement in production, the intercropping can help farmers in attaining raised economic returns by taking multiple crops in a single season. Intercropping is an alternative strategy for improved resource use efficiency, environmental safety, and sustainable pest management without the use of chemical pesticides that can help mitigate these risks. Intercropping (two or more crop species coexisting) is a cultural practice in pest management that reduces insect pests by increasing ecosystem diversity. Intercropping and planting crops that kill or repel pests, attract natural enemies, or have antibacterial effects can reduce disease and pest damage and pesticide use. Intercropping, where crops grow between main crops, reduces the likelihood of pest infestation. Intercropping is a potential pest management practice because it diversifies crops in an agro-ecosystem to reduce insect populations and attacks. Intercropping relies on a deep understanding of insect ecology and crop traits. Intercropping can be used alone or in combination with host-plant resistance and biological control. Intercropping ensures crop yield stability, protects against crop failure, improves soil fertility, increases soil conservation, and reduces pesticide use, minimizing agriculture's environmental impact. The aim is to define the role and importance of intercropping as a strategy in crop pest management and as a boost for crop production vis-à-vis soil fertility.
