Title: Assessment of Energy Budgeting and Its Indicator for Sustainable Nutrient and Weed Management in a Rice-Maize-Green Gram Cropping System
Authors: Dibakar Ghosh, Koushik Brahmachari, Anupam Das, Mohamed M. Hassan, Pijush Kanti Mukherjee, Sukamal Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar Dinda, Biswajit Pramanick, Debojyoti Moulick, Sagar Maitra, Akbar Hossain
Year: 2021
Venue: Agronomy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11010166
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3122982405

Abstract:
Sustainability and climate change are the two major challenges to the agricultural production system. The trade-off between them is essential for higher profitability. The energy assessment is essential for judging the sustainability and vulnerability of a production system. Besides, nutrient management and weed management are equally imperative to sustainability. Thus, the present study was executed to assess the energy balance, key energy indicators and profitability of rice–maize–green gram system under different nutrient and weed management practices. Application of Brassicaceous seed meal (BSM) along with mineral fertilizer attributed the highest rice (5.62 t ha−1) and maize (6.48 t ha−1) yield which was 11.6%, 8.3% and 3.7% in maize and 10.0%, 6.2% and 8.7% in rice for the conjoint application with vermicompost, farmyard manure (FYM) and neem cake, respectively. Moreover, BSM recorded the highest net energy gain, energy use efficiency and energy efficiency ratio and the lowest specific energy in all the crops. Application of pre-emergence herbicides followed by hoeing was found to be best in all respects including yield, profitability, energy use efficiency, energy effectiveness, etc. The appropriate combination of integrated nutrient management with BSM and pre-emergence herbicide application followed by hoeing provided an additional advantage not only in terms of yield but also an efficient use of energy, profitability and environmental safety. BSM and neem cake could be the alternative organic manure in the integrated nutrient-cum-weed management module and they could be able to compensate the paucity of FYM and vermicompost in the country.
