Title: Identifying existing approaches used to evaluate the sustainability of evidence-based interventions in healthcare: an integrative review
Authors: Rachel Flynn, Bonnie Stevens, Arjun Bains, Megan Kennedy, Shannon D. Scott
Year: 2022
Venue: Systematic Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-022-02093-1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306291337

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence to evaluate the sustainability of evidence-based interventions (EBIs) for healthcare improvement. Through an integrative review, we aimed to identify approaches to evaluate the sustainability of evidence-based interventions (EBIs) and sustainability outcomes. METHODS: Following Whittemore and Knafl's methodological process: (1) problem identification; (2) literature search; (3) data evaluation; (4) data analysis; and (5) presentation, a comprehensive search strategy was applied across five databases. Included studies were not restricted by research design; and had to evaluate the sustainability of an EBI in a healthcare context. We assessed the methodological quality of studies using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. RESULTS: Of 18,783 articles retrieved, 64 fit the inclusion criteria. Qualitative designs were most commonly used for evaluation (48%), with individual interviews as the predominant data collection method. Timing of data collection varied widely with post-intervention data collection most frequent (89%). Of the 64 studies, 44% used a framework, 26% used a model, 11% used a tool, 5% used an instrument, and 14% used theory as their primary approach to evaluate sustainability. Most studies (77%) did not measure sustainability outcomes, rather these studies focused on sustainability determinants. DISCUSSION: It is unclear which approach/approaches are most effective for evaluating sustainability and what measures and outcomes are most commonly used. There is a disconnect between evaluating the factors that may shape sustainability and the outcomes approaches employed to measure sustainability. Our review offers methodological recommendations for sustainability evaluation research and highlights the importance in understanding mechanisms of sustainability to advance the field.
