Title: Research on Sustainable Land Use Based on Production–Living–Ecological Function: A Case Study of Hubei Province, China
Authors: Chao Wei, Qiaowen Lin, L. Yu, Hongwei Zhang, Sheng Ye, Di Zhang
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13020996
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3122123713

Abstract:
After decades of rapid development, there exists insufficient and contradictory land use in the world, and social, economic and ecological sustainable development is facing severe challenges. Balanced land use functions (LUFs) can promote sustainable land use and reduces land pressures from limited land resources. In this study, we propose a new conceptual index system using the entropy weight method, regional center of gravity theory, coupling coordination degree model and obstacle factor identification model for LUFs assessment and spatial-temporal analysis. This framework was applied to 17 cities in central China’s Hubei Province using 39 indicators in terms of production–living–ecology analysis during 1996–2016. The result shows that (1) LUFs showed an overall upward trend during the study period, while the way of promotion varied with different dimensions. Production function (PF) experienced a continuous enhancement during the study period. Living function (LF) was similar in this aspect, but showed a faster rising tendency. EF continued to increase during 1996–2011, but declined during 2011–2016. LUFs were higher in the east than in the west, and slightly higher in the south than in the north. The spatial coordination was enhanced during the study period. (2) The overall level of coupling coordination degree continued to increase during 1996–2016, while regional difference declined obviously, indicating a good developing trend. However, the absolute level was still not satisfactory. (3) The obstacle degree of PF was always dominant, and LF showed a downward trend, while EF showed an increasing trend. Benefit index (A2), Comfort index (B2) and Green index (C1) constituted the primary obstacle factor for each dimension. Added-value of high and new technology industry (A2-3) and land use intensity (A3-2) were key factors restricting PF. Number of medical practitioner (B1-4) and internet penetration rate (B2-3) were key factors restricting LF. Air quality rate (C3-1) and wetland coverage rate (C1-4) were key factors restricting EF. This study can help to give a more detailed understanding of sustainable land use for the particularity of China from a land function perspective and provide lessons and suggestions for other developing countries in the world.
