Title: Development of Antibacterial and Antifouling Innovative and Eco-Sustainable Sol–Gel Based Materials: From Marine Areas Protection to Healthcare Applications
Authors: Ileana Ielo, Fausta Giacobello, Angela Castellano, Silvia Sfameni, Giulia Rando, Maria Rosaria Plutino
Year: 2021
Venue: Gels
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/gels8010026
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200026821

Abstract:
Bacterial colonization of surfaces is the leading cause of deterioration and contaminations. Fouling and bacterial settlement led to damaged coatings, allowing microorganisms to fracture and reach the inner section. Therefore, effective treatment of surface damaged material is helpful to detach bio-settlement from the surface and prevent deterioration. Moreover, surface coatings can withdraw biofouling and bacterial colonization due to inherent biomaterial characteristics, such as superhydrophobicity, avoiding bacterial resistance. Fouling was a past problem, yet its untargeted toxicity led to critical environmental concerns, and its use became forbidden. As a response, research shifted focus approaching a biocompatible alternative such as exciting developments in antifouling and antibacterial solutions and assessing their antifouling and antibacterial performance and practical feasibility. This review introduces state-of-the-art antifouling and antibacterial materials and solutions for several applications. In particular, this paper focuses on antibacterial and antifouling agents for concrete and cultural heritage conservation, antifouling sol-gel-based coatings for filtration membrane technology, and marine protection and textile materials for biomedicine. In addition, this review discusses the innovative synthesis technologies of antibacterial and antifouling solutions and the consequent socio-economic implications. The synthesis and the related physico-chemical characteristics of each solution are discussed. In addition, several characterization techniques and different parameters that influence the surface finishing coatings deposition were also described.
