Title: Evaluation of measures of sustainability and sustainability determinants for use in community, public health, and clinical settings: a systematic review
Authors: Alix Hall, Adam Shoesmith, Emma Doherty, Brydie McEvoy, Kayne D. Mettert, Cara C. Lewis, Luke Wolfenden, Serene Yoong, Melanie Kingsland, Rachel C. Shelton, Shannon Wiltsey Stirman, Noor Imad, Rachel Sutherland, Nicole Nathan
Year: 2022
Venue: Implementation Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13012-022-01252-1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4311361890

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Sustainability is concerned with the long-term delivery and subsequent benefits of evidence-based interventions. To further this field, we require a strong understanding and thus measurement of sustainability and what impacts sustainability (i.e., sustainability determinants). This systematic review aimed to evaluate the quality and empirical application of measures of sustainability and sustainability determinants for use in clinical, public health, and community settings. METHODS: Seven electronic databases, reference lists of relevant reviews, online repositories of implementation measures, and the grey literature were searched. Publications were included if they reported on the development, psychometric evaluation, or empirical use of a multi-item, quantitative measure of sustainability, or sustainability determinants. Eligibility was not restricted by language or date. Eligibility screening and data extraction were conducted independently by two members of the research team. Content coverage of each measure was assessed by mapping measure items to relevant constructs of sustainability and sustainability determinants. The pragmatic and psychometric properties of included measures was assessed using the Psychometric and Pragmatic Evidence Rating Scale (PAPERS). The empirical use of each measure was descriptively analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 32,782 articles were screened from the database search, of which 37 were eligible. An additional 186 publications were identified from the grey literature search. The 223 included articles represented 28 individual measures, of which two assessed sustainability as an outcome, 25 covered sustainability determinants and one explicitly assessed both. The psychometric and pragmatic quality was variable, with PAPERS scores ranging from 14 to 35, out of a possible 56 points. The Provider Report of Sustainment Scale had the highest PAPERS score and measured sustainability as an outcome. The School-wide Universal Behaviour Sustainability Index-School Teams had the highest PAPERS score (score=29) of the measure of sustainability determinants. CONCLUSIONS: This review can be used to guide selection of the most psychometrically robust, pragmatic, and relevant measure of sustainability and sustainability determinants. It also highlights that future research is needed to improve the psychometric and pragmatic quality of current measures in this field. TRIAL REGISTRATION: This review was prospectively registered with Research Registry (reviewregistry1097), March 2021.
