Title: Sustainability in surgical practice: a collaborative call toward environmental sustainability in operating rooms
Authors: Shaneeta Johnson, Stefania Marconi, Manuel Sanchez-Casalongue, Nader Francis, Bright Huo, Adnan Alseidi, Yewande Alimi, Andrea Pietrabissa, Alberto Arezzo, Maximos Frountzas, Vittoria Bellato, Oleksii Potapov, Paul Barach, Miran Rems, Ricardo J. Bello, Sheetal Nijhawan, Wendelyn M. Oslock, Tejas S. Sathe, Ryan P. Hall, Benjamin T. Miller, Sarah Samreen, Jimmy Chung, Nana Marfo, Robert B. Lim, Jonathan Vandeberg, Myrthe M. Eussen, Nicole D. Bouvy, Patricia Sylla
Year: 2024
Venue: Surgical Endoscopy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00464-024-10962-0
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400181719

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: The healthcare system plays a pivotal role in environmental sustainability, and the operating room (OR) significantly contributes to its overall carbon footprint. In response to this critical challenge, leading medical societies, government bodies, regulatory agencies, and industry stakeholders are taking measures to address healthcare sustainability and its impact on climate change. Healthcare now represents almost 20% of the US national economy and 8.5% of US carbon emissions. Internationally, healthcare represents 5% of global carbon emissions. US Healthcare is an outlier in both per capita cost, and per capita greenhouse gas emission, with almost twice per capita emissions compared to every other country in the world. METHODS: The Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) and the European Association for Endoscopic Surgery (EAES) established the Sustainability in Surgical Practice joint task force in 2023. This collaborative effort aims to actively promote education, mitigation, and innovation, steering surgical practices toward a more sustainable future. RESULTS: Several key initiatives have included a survey of members' knowledge and awareness, a scoping review of terminology, metrics, and initiatives, and deep engagement of key stakeholders. DISCUSSION: This position paper serves as a Call to Action, proposing a series of actions to catalyze and accelerate the surgical sustainability leadership needed to respond effectively to climate change, and to lead the societal transformation towards health that our times demand.
