Title: Traditional knowledge and institutions for sustainable climate change adaptation in Ethiopia
Authors: Zenebe Mekonnen, Marta Kidemu, Habtamu Abebe, Mihiret Semere, Marta Gebreyesus, Adefris Worku, Musse Tesfaye, Abraham Chernet
Year: 2021
Venue: Current Research in Environmental Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crsust.2021.100080
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3189685716

Abstract:
Local values, institutions and knowledge have enabled people to understand the happenings and changes in their environment. Local perceptions and knowledge provide a crucial foundation for community-based climate change adaptation measures and natural resource conservation. This paper is specifically focused on the assessment of the opportunities and challenges of traditional knowledge and institutions for community's sustainable climate change adaptation in Ethiopia. We used knowledge products form journal articles, policy documents, working papers, policy briefs, and other gray literature. In addition, two case studies were conducted in central and eastern Ethiopia by interviewing 251 randomly selected households. This helped to determine the state-of-the art for knowledge co-products for community's sustainable climate change adaptation and natural resource management. Regardless of the challenges from global change, cultural erosion and transformation, traditional knowledge still serve as the bases for weather forecasting, agricultural and natural resource management thereby sustain community's livelihoods and landscape resilience against the impacts of climate change and variability. Traditional knowledge and institutions in Ethiopia have maintained landscapes for millennia: Konso cultural landscapes and Gedeo Agroforestry systems are some to mention. The knowledge systems have also contributed for the large diversity of crops and livestock breeds in Ethiopia which play roles in community's climate change adaptation. From this assessment, it can be concluded that both scientific and traditional knowledge have their own gaps and what will be better is the integration of the two to give an additive impact that can foster sustainable development and build livelihood and landscape resilience in times of climate change.
