Title: Plant growth-promoting yeasts (PGPY), the latest entrant for use in sustainable agriculture: a review
Authors: K. A. Nimsi, K. Manjusha, K. Kathiresan, Himanshu Kumar Arya
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Applied Microbiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/jambio/lxac088
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4318922012

Abstract:
Abstract Synthetic fertilizers and pesticides are being extensively used in agriculture in order to increase food production to feed the rapidly growing world population. This has negatively affected the soil microbes thereby reducing the agricultural produce. As a safer alternative, microbial fertilizers are now being used as plant growth promoters to improve agricultural yields. A large number of studies are focused on the role of bacteria and multicellular fungi, but plant growth-promoting traits of yeasts, the unicellular fungi are little known. Hence, the present article reviewed the diverse groups of yeasts with the potential to act as plant growth promoters. Plant growth-promoting yeasts (PGPY) have been mainly isolated from the rhizosphere and phyllosphere of major crop plants such as wheat, maize, and rice. Twenty-three genera of yeasts have been reported to have the potential for plant growth promotion (PGP), most of which belong to the phylum Ascomycetes. Dominant PGPY genera include Candida spp., Rhodotorula spp., Cryptococcus spp., and Saccharomyces sp. PGPY are known to exhibit phyto-beneficial attributes viz phytohormone production, phosphate solubilization, siderophore production, improved soil fertility, aid plants to tolerate abiotic stress and also compete effectively against plant pathogens. Over and above these traits, PGPY is Generally Recognized as Safe, making it an ideal candidate to be effectively employed as part of sustainable agricultural practices to ensure food security. The review warrants a need for an in-depth study on the different sources of PGPY other than rhizosphere/phyllosphere and the genes controlling PGP traits.
