Title: Rhizosphere Engineering With Plant Growth-Promoting Microorganisms for Agriculture and Ecological Sustainability
Authors: Sughra Hakim, Tahir Naqqash, Muhammad Shoib Nawaz, Iqra Laraib, Muhammad Jawad Siddique, Rabisa Zia, M. S. Mirza, Asma Imran
Year: 2021
Venue: Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fsufs.2021.617157
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3131483066

Abstract:
The rhizosphere is undoubtedly the most complex microhabitat, comprised of an integrated network of plant roots, soil, and a diverse consortium of bacteria, fungi, eukaryotes, and archaea. The rhizosphere conditions have a direct impact on crop growth and yield. Nutrient-rich rhizosphere environments stimulate plant growth and yield and vice versa. Extensive cultivation exhaust most of the soils which need to be nurtured before or during the next crop. Chemical fertilizers are the major source of crop nutrients but their uncontrolled and widespread usage has posed a serious threat to the sustainability of agriculture and stability of an ecosystem. These chemicals are accumulated in the soil, drained in water, and emitted to the air where they persist for decades causing a serious threat to the overall ecosystem. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) present in the rhizosphere convert many plant-unavailable essential nutrients e.g., nitrogen, phosphorous, zinc, etc. into available forms. PGPR produces certain plant growth hormones (such as auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellin), cell lytic enzymes (chitinase, protease, hydrolases, etc.), secondary metabolites, and antibiotics, and stress alleviating compounds (e.g., 1-Aminocyclopropane-1- carboxylate deaminase), chelating agents (siderophores), and some signaling compounds (e.g., N-Acyl homoserine lactones) to interact with the beneficial or pathogenic counterparts in the rhizosphere. These multifarious activities of PGPR improve the soil structure, health, fertility, and functioning which directly or indirectly support plant growth under normal and stressed environments. Rhizosphere engineering with these PGPR has a wide-ranging application not only for crop fertilization but developing eco-friendly sustainable agriculture. Due to severe climate change effects on plants and rhizosphere biology, there is growing interest in stress-resilient PGPM and their subsequent application to induce stress (drought, salinity, and heat) tolerance mechanism in plants. This review describes the three components of rhizosphere engineering with an explicit focus on the broader perspective of PGPM that could facilitate rhizosphere engineering in selected hosts to serve as an efficient component for sustainable agriculture.
