Title: Promoting sustainable development via stakeholder engagement in higher education
Authors: Walter Leal Filho, Tiago F. A. C. Sigahi, Rosley Anholon, Bianca Gasparetto Rebelatto, Inga Schmidt-Ross, Susanne Hensel-Börner, D. Franco, Thomas Treacy, Luciana Brandli
Year: 2025
Venue: Environmental Sciences Europe
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12302-025-01101-0
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4409800168

Abstract:
Higher education institutions (HEI) are uniquely positioned to contribute to sustainable development through education, research, community engagement, and policy influence. In this context, stakeholder engagement is recognised as an important strategy, since involving diverse groups in decision-making processes, HEIs can harness a wealth of perspectives, expertise, and resources, fostering more inclusive, innovative, and effective approaches to sustainability. There is a perceived need for studies that explore the contribution of various stakeholders in higher education, and suggest ways to optimise their participation in processes. Against this background, this paper seeks to bridge the gap between theoretical frameworks of stakeholder engagement and practical applications within the context of sustainable development in higher education. By examining 29 real-world case studies and best practices, this paper provides actionable insights and guidance for HEIs to enhance their sustainability efforts. Findings from the analysis of cases in Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and South America were consolidated into ten guidelines for HEIs seeking to promote sustainable development through stakeholder engagement. The analysis of trends identified three clusters: (i) HEI’s role in sustainable development through stakeholder engagement and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); (ii) human-centred sustainability via transformative learning and community empowerment; and (iii) education and interdisciplinary approaches to sustainability. The nature of the work performed, and the scope of the activities of HEIs put them in a key position to drive sustainable development by engaging diverse stakeholders across academic and societal contexts, including students, faculty, administration, industry partners, and the broader community. Inclusive participation and interdisciplinary educational programmes that integrate sustainability across curricula are key to effective stakeholder engagement. In addition, institutional commitment, including strong leadership and strategic policies, is essential for advancing sustainability initiatives, while partnerships with local communities and industries amplify the practical impact of sustainability efforts while addressing real-world challenges.
