Title: Phytoremediation: Low input-based ecological approach for sustainable environment
Authors: Himshweta Singh, Gaurav Pant
Year: 2023
Venue: Applied Water Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13201-023-01898-2
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4322769027

Abstract:
Abstract In today's fast-paced society, environmental breakdown is an ecumenical concern. This dilemma is tangled up with the unaccountable anthropogenic activities that are causing significant public health issues. Because of the rapid pace of development, urban soil and water pollution is progressively acting as a sink for a variety of contaminants, including heavy metals, pesticides, petroleum waste, radioactive moieties, etc. Phytoremediation is a low-cost, high-efficient method of extracting or removing pollutants from the environment. Water is transpired by green plants in order to move nutrients from the soil to the site of photosynthesis. During this process, pollutants in the water are also taken up and sequestered, digested, or drained out. This technique has many benefits over conventional approaches which is aesthetically pleasing and has long-term applicability. Phytoremediation could be a viable option to decontaminate heavy metal-polluted sites, particularly when the biomass produced during the process could be economically utilized in the form of bioenergy. Depending on the method used and nature of the contaminant involved, phytoremediating areas where metals and other inorganic compounds exist may utilize one of several techniques as discussed in the present study which are phytodegradation, phytoextraction, phytostimulation, phytostabilization, phytofiltration, phytovolatalization, etc. Phytoremediation is an emerging technology that employs the natural, biological, chemical, or physical processes of plants to remove, detoxify, or immobilize environmental contaminants in a growth matrix. This approach is hence an innovative tool with a great potential to decontaminate soil and water. Phytoremediation is a promising technique for ensuring the sustainability of future generations and reducing pollution.
