Title: Environmental Sustainability of Off-Site Construction in Developed and Developing Regions: A Systematic Review
Authors: Janappriya Jayawardana, Asela K. Kulatunga, J. A. S. C. Jayasinghe, Malindu Sandanayake, Guomin Zhang
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Architectural Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1061/jaeied.aeeng-1420
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321507223

Abstract:
Off-site construction (OSC) methods have captured significant recognition during the last decade due to a range of benefits offered, from reduced construction time and cost to improved efficiency and environmental savings. OSC is proven to have enhanced performance in environmental issues such as waste generation and carbon emissions. However, even with well-documented benefits, by 2018, no major market has yet exceeded 20% of OSC penetration. Thus, identifying factors that advanced and enhanced the environmental performance of OSC from current research to understand the learnings and strategies is timely. A systematic literature review on the role of developed and developing economies in the environmental sustainability of off-site constructed buildings and identifying critical success factors (CSFs) is a novel research opportunity in the current literature. Thus, this research presents a systematic review of the environmental sustainability of OSC (ESOSC) with a clear focus on comparing OSC and its advancements in developed and developing countries. The research methodology involves a bibliometric analysis (BA) followed by an in-depth qualitative discussion. The BA identified key research trends, gaps, and governing countries in ESOSC research. The critical review has significantly focused on comparing the ESOSC studies in developed and developing countries to understand the differences, similarities, CSFs, and future opportunities. The outcomes of BA and critical discussion suggested that further research is required in the following topic areas: comprehensive sustainability assessments, smart/computerized technology integration, prefabrication rate-related research, integration of circular economy/sustainable development goals, and developing region-specific research. The theoretical value of the paper is in facilitating a solid basis for future investigations into the role of these economies in the triple bottom line of sustainability. The practical contribution of the study is to guide OSC stakeholders to increase the rate of OSC adoption and boost environmental performance.
