Title: Lithium Storage and Release From Lacustrine Sediments: Implications for Lithium Enrichment and Sustainability in Continental Brines
Authors: D. M. Coffey, LeeAnn Munk, Daniel Ibarra, Kristina L. Butler, David F. Boutt, Jordan Jenckes
Year: 2021
Venue: Geochemistry Geophysics Geosystems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1029/2021gc009916
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200050745

Abstract:
Abstract Despite current and projected future reliance on lithium (Li) as a resource, deficiencies remain in genesis models of closed‐basin Li brines. Subsurface geochemical interactions between water and bulk solid phases from lacustrine sediments, are shown here to be the most important process for brine genesis and sustainability of the Clayton Valley, NV brine deposit. A new subsurface basin model was developed and used to select Li‐bearing solids to test the release mechanisms for Li. Ash (20–350 ppm Li) and bulk sediments (1,000–1,700 ppm Li) samples across depths in the basin represent the majority of the subsurface Li‐bearing materials. Temperature dependent (25°C–95°C) batch reaction experiments using low‐salinity groundwater from the basin indicate a positive relationship between the amount of Li released and temperature. Four‐step sequential extractions on a subset of bulk sediments indicate most Li is released from water and weak acid‐soluble portions with approximately 30% of the total Li contained in the sediments released overall. We conceptualize that Li is released from these samples via three mechanisms: (a) release of adsorbed Li; (b) cation exchange of Li and Mg and; (c) possible minor release from the silicate structure at elevated temperatures. Based on these results and the abundance of Li‐bearing sediments in the subsurface we estimate the mean Li mass in the basin materials to be between 24.4 and 58.0 Mt which provides a continuous supply from water‐rock interactions. This is now the largest known accumulation of Li in a basin‐fill continental setting on a global scale.
