Title: A transdisciplinary approach to define and assess wild food plant sustainable foraging in Norway
Authors: Irene Teixidor‐Toneu, Nicolas J. Giraud, Pål Karlsen, Alexis Annes, Anneleen Kool
Year: 2022
Venue: Plants People Planet
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/ppp3.10332
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4296392488

Abstract:
Societal Impact Statement Foraging wild food plants is sometimes perceived as a conservation threat or, alternatively, as an opportunity for sustainable development. Little is known of how foragers themselves define and ensure sustainable foraging. Here, we collaboratively assessed the activities and motivations of the forager community in Norway in order to achieve a combined social and ecological assessment of foraging sustainability. Current foraging of wild food plants in Norway contributes to an increased appreciation of nature rather than generating negative environmental impact and is hence an opportunity for sustainable development. Summary Wild food plants are well recognized as local sources of nutrition that can contribute to food security, but foraging is sometimes viewed as a threat to biological conservation. Here, we characterize and assess sustainable foraging in Norway through transdisciplinary research co‐constructed with the Norwegian Association for Mycology and Foraging. We conducted 19 face‐to‐face interviews with key stakeholders and produced an online questionnaire returned by 219 recreational and commercial foragers to enquire about what species are harvested, by whom and how, where do foragers learn and what are their perspectives on the sustainability of foraging. Foraging fosters a strong connection with the natural environment. Foragers decide when and how much can be harvested considering location, plant and plant part being harvested. They pay attention to native plants' conservation status and local abundance and plant individual's survival after foraging and aim to not spread invasive species. We define sustainable foraging as the knowledge and practices that enable enriching forager–biodiversity relationships over time. Such a definition can support collaborative sustainability efforts between the academic community and civil society.
