Title: Why geopolymers and alkali‐activated materials are key components of a sustainable world: A perspective contribution
Authors: Waltraud M. Kriven, Cristina Leonelli, John L. Provis, Aldo R. Boccaccini, Cyril Attwell, Vilma Ducman, Claudio Ferone, Sylvie Rossignol, Terο Luukkοnen, J.S.J. van Deventer, José Emiliano, Jérôme E. Lombardi
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of the American Ceramic Society
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jace.19828
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394565809

Abstract:
Abstract This perspective article delves into the transformative potential of alkali‐activated materials, acid‐activated materials, and geopolymers in mitigating climate change and market challenges. To harness the benefits of these materials, a comprehensive strategy is proposed. This strategy aims to integrate these materials into existing construction regulations, facilitate certification, and promote market access. Emphasizing research and innovation, the article advocates for, increased funding to refine the chemistry and production of these materials, prioritizing low‐cost alternatives and local waste materials. Collaboration between academia and industry is encouraged to expedite technological advances and broaden applications. This article also underscores the need to develop economic and business models emphasizing the long‐term benefits of these materials, including lower life‐cycle costs and reduced environmental impact. Incentivizing adoption through financial mechanisms like tax credits and subsidies is suggested. The strategy also includes scaling up production technology, fostering industrial collaboration for commercial viability, and developing global supply chains. Educational programs for professionals and regulators are recommended to enhance awareness and adoption. Additionally, comprehensive life‐cycle assessments are proposed to demonstrate environmental benefits. The strategy culminates in expanding the applications of these materials beyond construction, fostering international collaboration for knowledge sharing, and thus positioning these materials as essential for sustainable construction and climate change mitigation.
