Title: Does increased circularity lead to environmental sustainability?: The case of washing machine reuse in Germany
Authors: Sandra Boldoczki, Andrea Thorenz, Axel Tuma
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of Industrial Ecology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.13104
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3134937369

Abstract:
This study investigates under which circumstances increases in circularity through the reuse of use-phase-intensive electrical and electronic equipment lead to environmental benefits. We combine dynamic material flow analysis (dMFA) and life cycle assessment (LCA) to assess a Circular Economy strategy toward its environmental sustainability on midpoint and endpoint levels. The hybrid approach measures long-term implications of policy decisions in multiple impact categories and shows the need to comprehensively evaluate Circular Economy activities. We apply the approach to the strategy of setting reuse targets in a case study on washing machines in Germany. As a consequence of a reuse target, the product portfolio changes over time. The resulting stocks and flows are calculated in a dMFA, and attributed with the respective LCA-based environmental impacts. We present cumulated impacts between 2015 and 2050 for scenarios with different reuse targets for 18 midpoints and three endpoints of the impact assessment method ReCiPe 2016, and the cumulative energy demand. The latest proposal of a 5% reuse target results in average impact reductions of 1% compared to “business as usual.” An increase of reuse up to 87% results in an average impact reduction of 9%, ranging from an increase of 1% (water consumption) to a decrease up to 26% (land use). This shows that even high reuse rates only have a limited leverage on reducing environmental impacts and that it is therefore necessary to include detailed environmental assessments in a holistic evaluation of Circular Economy activities. This article met the requirements for a gold-gold JIE data openness badge described at http://jie.click/badges.
