Title: Sustainable development of recycled concrete aggregate through optimized acid-mechanical treatment: A simplified approach
Authors: Babu Lal Chauhan, Gyani Jail Singh
Year: 2023
Venue: Construction and Building Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2023.132559
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385324016

Abstract:
Present research develops an optimized acid-mechanical treatment for recycled concrete aggregate (RCA). RCA prepared in the laboratory jaw crusher is further soaked for 24 h in a mild acetic acid solution. Acid-soaked recycled aggregates (SR) are mechanically treated at a series of charges and drum revolutions using Los Angeles machines. A performance-based quality identification approach is used to compare acid-mechanically treated recycled concrete aggregates (SRij). The VIKOR indices (QI) for each SRij is calculated by applying a multi-criteria decision-making approach. Based on performance, three SRij with the lowest QI are selected for an experimental study. The present research achieves 71.27 MPa compressive strength for concrete composed of a SRij with the lowest QI. This strength is around 16.06% higher than concrete composed of parent aggregate. Flexural strength, split tensile strength, fracture energy, ultrasonic pulse velocity (UPV) values, rapid-chloride penetration test (RCPT) values, water absorption, and abrasion resistance are in the range of what is expected for parent aggregate concrete. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) image analysis shows that the well compacted and uniform surface morphology of aggregate strengthens the newly developed interfacial transition zone (NITZ) and old interfacial transition zone (OITZ). Acid treatment reduces microcrack lengths and widths and mechanical treatment reduces microcracks and pores by reducing adherent mortar optimally. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis shows the lower calcium hydroxide (CH) content in the mortar attached to the SR. A reduced CH content lowers the porosity in the adhered mortar. Thus, improved quality of attached mortar and its reduced porosity strengthen the old interfacial transition zone (OITZ) and lowers the sorptivity of the concrete than reported and almost equal to that of parent aggregate concrete.
