Title: Investigating industry 4.0 technologies in logistics 4.0 usage towards sustainable manufacturing supply chain
Authors: Karishma M. Qureshi, Bhavesh G. Mewada, Sumeet Kaur, Adil Khan, Muhammad Musa Al-Qahtani, M.N. Qureshi
Year: 2024
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e30661
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396641505

Abstract:
In the era of Industry 4.0 (I4.0), automation and data analysis have undergone significant advancements, greatly impacting production management and operations management. Technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, cloud computing (CC), and big data, have played a crucial role in shaping Logistics 4.0 (L4.0) and improving the efficiency of the manufacturing supply chain (SC), ultimately contributing to sustainability goals. The present research investigates the role of I4.0 technologies within the framework of the extended theory of planned behavior (ETPB). The research explores various variables including subjective norms, attitude, perceived behavior control, leading to word-of-mouth, and purchase intention. By modeling these variables, the study aims to understand the influence of I4.0 technologies on L4.0 to establish a sustainable manufacturing SC. A questionnaire was administered to gather input from small and medium-sized firms (SMEs) in the manufacturing industry. An empirical study along with partial least squares structural equation modeling (SEM), was conducted to analyze the data. The findings indicate that the use of I4.0 technology in L4.0 influences subjective norms, which subsequently influence attitudes and personal behavior control. This, in turn, leads to word-of-mouth and purchase intention. The results provide valuable insights for shippers and logistics service providers empowering them to enhance their performance and contribute to achieving sustainability objectives. Consequently, this study contributes to promoting sustainability in the manufacturing SC by stimulating the adoption of I4.0 technologies in L4.0.
