Title: Generation Z's green purchase behavior: Do green consumer knowledge, consumer social responsibility, green advertising, and green consumer trust matter for sustainable development?
Authors: Prasad Siba Borah, Courage Simon Kofi Dogbe, Nyankomo Marwa
Year: 2024
Venue: Business Strategy and the Environment
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.3714
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392783427

Abstract:
Abstract Generation Z (Gen‐Z), representing a demographic cohort of persons born from 1995 to 2010, has demonstrated their concerns for environmental protection. On September 20, 2019, for example, millions of Gen‐Zs from over 150 different countries across the globe embarked on a protest to pressure decision‐makers and governments to help save the planet. Such campaigns have caused firms to rethink how they operate by adopting green operations in their production and distribution of products. The footwear industry is not left out. The problem this research sought to address is the assessment of the effect of green consumer knowledge on green purchase behavior among Gen‐Z consumers towards footwear while assessing the roles of consumer social responsibility, green advertising, and green consumer trust. The study was quantitative in nature and used an online questionnaire to survey 559 Chinese Gen‐Z consumers. Findings revealed that although green consumer knowledge had a direct effect on green purchase behavior, this effect was partially mediated by consumer social responsibility. The effect of consumer social responsibility on green purchase behavior was positively moderated by green advertising, and the moderating effect of green advertising was further strengthened by green consumer trust. Finally, the mediating effect of consumer social responsibility was conditional on the moderating effects of green advertising and green consumer trust. It was concluded that green consumer knowledge is an essential ingredient in enhancing Gen‐Z consumers' green purchase behavior towards footwear, as such, advocacy and pressure groups must increasingly conscientize consumers.
