Title: A Comprehensive Overview of the Utilization of Recycled Waste Materials and Technologies in Asphalt Pavements: Towards Environmental and Sustainable Low-Carbon Roads
Authors: Nura Shehu Aliyu Yaro, Muslich Hartadi Sutanto, Lavania Baloo, Noor Zainab Habib, Aliyu Usman, Arsalaan Khan Yousafzai, Abdulaziz Ahmad, Abdullahi Haruna Birniwa, Ahmad Hussaini Jagaba, Azmatullah Noor
Year: 2023
Venue: Processes
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/pr11072095
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4384300129

Abstract:
Given the prevailing concerns about greenhouse gas emissions, global warming, and the growing demand for renewable resources, the pavement industry, among others, is actively engaged in researching and exploring low-carbon materials and technologies. Despite the growing interest in low-carbon asphalt pavement, there is still a significant knowledge gap regarding the use of various waste materials and technologies to achieve this goal. This study aims to close this gap by conducting a systematic review and scientometric assessment of the existing studies on the use of waste materials and technologies for low-carbon asphalt pavement. The study spans the years 2008 to 2023, and the scientometric analysis was conducted using the VOS viewer application. The study identifies materials and technologies in this area by examining co-authored country studies, publication sources, and keyword co-occurrence. It should be noted that a limited number of waste materials that allow CO2 emissions reduction was analyzed in this study. However, other waste categories, such as bio-oils and polymers, which can provide positive either environmental or economic impacts on the production of paving materials, were not considered in the scope of the study. Based on the current review, it was found that integrating recycled waste materials like recycled asphalt pavement, biochar, or crumb rubber with alternative mixing technologies such as warm mix asphalt and cleaner energy can significantly reduce CO2 emissions. China and the United States were identified as key research contributors to the low-carbon pavement. Furthermore, biomass-based fuel and electric construction equipment lower carbon and greenhouse gas emissions by 36–90% and 67–95%, respectively. However, before various recycled waste materials and technologies can be widely used in the asphalt industry, various challenges need to be addressed, including cost concerns, performance and durability concerns, standardization and regulations, availability, integration with existing facilities, and insufficient field and long-term data. The review identified critical research gaps, such as the absence of a homogeneous and reliable standard method for low-carbon asphalt pavement, limited field performance data, and a life cycle assessment approach in analyzing the emission reduction effects. The reviews will aid in the paradigm shift to a more carbon-friendly pavement industry that uses recycled waste materials and technologies.
