Title: Pulse seeds as promising and sustainable source of ingredients with naturally bioencapsulated nutrients: Literature review and outlook
Authors: Andrea Pallares Pallares, Shannon Gwala, Katharina Pälchen, Dorine Duijsens, Marc Hendrickx, Tara Grauwet
Year: 2021
Venue: Comprehensive Reviews in Food Science and Food Safety
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/1541-4337.12692
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3121050991

Abstract:
Pulse seeds are nutritious and sustainable matrices with a high level of intrinsic microstructural complexity. They contain high-quality plant-based protein and substantial amounts of slowly digestible starch and dietary fiber. Starch and protein in pulses are located inside cotyledon cells that survive cooking and subsequent mechanical disintegration, hence preserving natural nutrient bioencapsulation. In this context, several authors have explored a number of techniques to isolate individual cotyledon cells from these seeds, aiming to unveil their digestive and physicochemical properties. In recent years, isolated pulse cotyledon cells are also being highlighted as promising novel ingredients that could improve the nutritional properties of traditionally consumed food products. Even more, they could enable to implement a strategy for increasing pulse intake in populations where these seeds have not been traditionally consumed. This review mainly focuses on the reported digestive, physicochemical, and technofunctional properties of pulse cotyledon cells isolated through different techniques, preceded by a descriptive summary of the nutritional properties, structural organization, and traditional process chain of pulse seeds. It also offers an outlook of research directions to take, based on the identified research gaps. All in all, it is clear that isolation of pulse cotyledon cells using diverse techniques constitutes a promising strategy for the development of pulse-based ingredients where natural bioencapsulation of macronutrients is preserved. However, much more research is needed at the level of ingredient characterization to better understand the effect of starting pulse seed material, isolation technique, and isolation conditions on the nutritional and functional properties of the finished product(s) where the isolated cells are (to be) used.
