Title: Flight verification of cooling self-sustaining high-temperature superconducting motor
Authors: Jinxing Zheng, Jinxin Sun, Fei Liu, Xufeng Liu, Junyi Peng, Jiong Zhang, Chi Zhang, Lei Zhu, Xiaoliang Zhu, Chen Huang, Yuan Cheng, Dongdong Su
Year: 2024
Venue: Superconductor Science and Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6668/ad54f5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399380351

Abstract:
Abstract The global shift towards sustainable development and technological advancements has propelled the energy transition trend. Recognizing the substantial environmental impact of conventional commercial airplanes, there is a growing urgency to develop a sophisticated superconducting motor system for commercial aviation. The advent of high-temperature superconducting motors presents a transformative leap, offering significant advantages in power density and efficiency when compared to traditional motors. To validate the issues that future liquid-hydrogen superconducting electric airplanes may encounter, a kilowatt-class aerospace high-temperature superconducting motor is designed. Based on the requirements of airborne applications, critical parameters such as electromagnetic characteristics, operating characteristics, and AC losses have been analyzed. Furthermore, extensive research and testing have been conducted on the superconducting motor magnet, leading to the successful assembly of a prototype. The superconducting motor has a rated output power of 2.7 kW and a rated speed of 5000 rpm. Rigorous ground operation performance tests have also been conducted to ensure the feasibility and reliability of the motor in practical applications. Benefiting from the topological structure design, the superconducting motor has an excellent sealing performance at low temperatures. The superconducting motor can maintain low temperature and high vacuum for a long time, when the vacuum pump is removed and the liquid nitrogen inlet is closed after the motor is completely cooled. The culmination of these endeavors is the realization of a successful flight validation of an unmanned aerial vehicle equipped with a high-temperature superconducting motor, demonstrating a sustained flight of nearly one hour.
