Title: Sustainable soil management and climate change mitigation
Authors: Deyi Hou
Year: 2021
Venue: Soil Use and Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/sum.12718
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3161773888

Abstract:
Sustainable soil management renders multifaceted benefits to meeting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (FAO, 2018; Hou et al., 2020; Keesstra et al., 2016). Its implications for climate change mitigation has been drawing particular interest in recent years (FAO, 2017; Poulton et al., 2018). On the one hand, soil represents the largest carbon pool in the Earth's terrestrial system, accounting for nearly five times that of the atmospheric carbon pool (Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020; Le Quere et al., 2018); on the other hand, N2O, CH4 and CO2 emissions from soils all represent significant fluxes that affect greenhouse gas balance in the atmosphere (Lal, 2019; Tian et al., 2019; Zhu et al., 2018). Soil micro-organisms play a critical role in the cycling of soil organic carbon (SOC), but we still lack sufficient scientific knowledge to build quantitative predictive models in the context of soil use and management (Cavicchioli et al., 2019; Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020). There is an urgent need to better understand how soil use and management affect climate change, due to both carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change also has a significant effect on soil carbon balance (Davidson & Janssens, 2006). On a global scale, rising temperatures have resulted in the higher heterotrophic respiration of SOC and thus CO2 emissions; however, this is partly due to increased plant growth and autotrophic fixation (Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020). Due to the complex feedback loops involved in these processes, the effect of climate change on the net flux of greenhouse gas emissions still remains unknown (Bradford et al., 2016; Davidson & Janssens, 2006). To better understand these interactive dynamics, it is imperative to have more field monitoring data and an in-depth examination of data from different sources. Given the interest among soil scientists, as well as great potential societal impacts, our editorial team at the journal of Soil Use and Management is commissioning a virtual special issue (VSI) with the topic of 'Soil and Climate Change Mitigation' (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/toc/10.1111/(ISSN)1475-2743.soil-and-climate-change-mitigation). So far we have collected 22 papers, covering topics including (a) soil and greenhouse gas (N2O, CH4, CO2) emissions, (b) soil and carbon sequestration and (c) monitoring strategies. We intend to keep updating this VSI and continually collect high-quality research papers pertaining to climate change mitigation with sustainable soil management. Nitrogen input is essential for maintaining soil fertility and increasing crop yield (Campbell, 1978). However, nitrogen not taken up by crop roots can be converted to nitrous oxide (N2O), a greenhouse gas emission that renders 298 times the warming potential of CO2 (Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020). Inorganic N fertilizer is of particular concern in comparison with organic fertilizers. A recent study showed that inorganic N fertilizer tends to render a higher N2O emission intensity even when applied at half the N application rate as organic N fertilizer (Chirinda et al., 2021). Nitrous oxide emission factors may be region specific and vary under different climate conditions. Prolonged wet weather can increase N2O emissions due to enhanced anaerobic soil conditions (Chirinda et al., 2021). Hydrological gradient renders similar influences, e.g. in a grazed subtropical grassland, the N2O emission rates for isolated island, transient edge and pasture upland were 0.368, 0.178 and 0.003 N2O-N kg−1 dry soil h−1 respectively, representing two orders of magnitude variation (Hu et al., 2020). The N2O dynamic is affected by labile carbon content, as it can enhance anaerobic environment and thus increase N2O emissions. A study in northern Germany found that, when there was no extreme rainfall or freeze–thaw cycles, return of straw residue did not induce high N2O emissions; however, when glucose was added as a labile carbon source, N2O emissions increased by up to 32 times (Wang et al., 2020). N2O emissions are also affected by other site characteristics, such as soil mineralization–immobilization turnover and nitrification (Song et al., 2020), and clay content (Miller et al., 2020). From a climate mitigation perspective, it is imperative to reduce N2O emissions by lowering N input to soil, or fine tuning the N cycling process to completely oxidize ammonia to nitrate without producing N2O as a by-product (Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020). Researchers are developing a variety of strategies, for example urease inhibiting and coating technologies have been tried to reduce soil N2O emission, with varying levels of success (Ribeiro et al., 2020). Methane and carbon dioxide emissions from soil are also significant (Le Mer & Roger, 2001; Paustian et al., 2000). Methane and carbon dioxide emissions are enhanced under anaerobic and aerobic conditions, respectively. For CO2 emissions, peatland is of particular concern. Peat only covers 3% of the Earth's land surface but contains 30% of global surficial soil carbon stock (Cavicchioli et al., 2019). Drainage, peat mining and overgrazing have caused serious peatland degradation and increased CO2 emissions (Córdova et al., 2021; Zhou et al., 2021). On the other hand, a less anaerobic environment in the degraded peatland also renders decreased CH4 emissions (Zhou et al., 2021). Another area of particular concern is the permafrost, which stores nearly half of all soil carbon on a global scale. Recent studies suggest that 5–15% of this carbon pool is susceptible to decomposition during the thawing process triggered by global warming (Jansson & Hofmockel, 2020), which could lead to both CO2 and CH4 emissions. Soil management on a farm scale can affect both SOC level and CO2 emissions, for example the incorporation of crop residue tends to increase CO2 flux (Nishigaki et al., 2021). Soil constituents also play a critical role in regulating CO2 and CH4 emissions. A study in the UK showed that grassland CO2 emissions were positively correlated with clay content (Miller et al., 2020). Trace elements such as manganese and selenium were found to affect CO2 and CH4 emissions in tropical peatland (Dhandapani et al., 2021). Soil represents the largest terrestrial carbon pool. Carbon sequestration by soil minerals represent a promising strategy for climate change mitigation (Wang et al., 2020). According to an analysis of soil organic carbon data from 1980 to 2015 in the semiarid regions of China, soil carbon storage could increase by 453%–757%, if optimal cultivated land type, mulching material type and planting method were selected (Xiao et al., 2020). Conservation agriculture practices, such as zero tillage and residue retention, could potentially improve carbon sequestration in surficial soil (Dey et al., 2020). A 36-year long-term study found that no tillage resulted in 1.5 t C ha−1 of soil organic matter in comparison with conventional tillage (Govindasamy et al., 2021). Recent studies showed that microbial residue represents an important source of stable SOC (Kallenbach et al., 2016). Soil pH plays an important role in this process: at a pH level higher than 6.2, efficient microbial metabolism results in more SOC accumulation; at a pH level lower than 6.2, acidic stress limits microbial decomposition and increases SOC accumulation (Malik et al., 2018). For deeper soil, different studies have rendered contrasting results on the impact of conservation agriculture on soil carbon storage (Dey et al., 2020; Govindasamy et al., 2021), which may be dependent on the soil mineral types as calcareous soil can also store inorganic carbon. The soil carbon dynamic is also influenced by the reaction occurring on the surface of clay minerals, for example poorly crystalline Fe and Al increased the C saturation, thus causing more carbon desorption and microbial decomposition (Khandakar et al., 2021). If straw removal is needed to obtain biomass-derived fuels, a sufficient number of straws, for example 3 ton ha−1 of straw in sugarcane field, may need to be retained in order to maintain sufficient carbon source for sustainable growth and soil carbon storage (Gmach et al., 2021). Soil amendment, especially biochar, has been advocated as a promising technology for simultaneously increasing crop yield and mitigating climate change (Wankhede et al., 2021; Ye et al., 2020); consequently, there is a recent boom in pertaining research (Hou, 2021). A field experiment conducted over a period of a decade found that biochar application significantly increased both inorganic and organic carbon contents in soil, with the most significant increase in the particulate organic carbon content. However, biochar application was also found to have reduced silt and clay associated organic carbon, likely due to biochar's priming effect on natural soil carbon (Shi et al., 2021). The application of soil amendment may also enhance aggregate formation and improve the stability of soil organic matter, for example a structural equation model revealed that manure fertilization stimulates microbial growth, which renders polysaccharide-C and aliphatic-C in intra-particulate organic matter to facilitate macro-aggregate formation (Wen et al., 2021). The spatial and temporal variation of soil carbon sequestration and soil GHG emission depend on climate, land use, topography, soil texture, etc (Maia et al., 2019; Zhu et al., 2020). Zhu et al. (2020) found that at the plot scale (70 m x 70 m), soil organic carbon is influenced by both topography and soil texture, while at the landscape scale (2 km x 2 km), soil organic carbon is influenced mainly by soil texture. As these factors vary on different spatial scales, monitoring strategy needs to be optimized accordingly in order to achieve proper representation. The in-field variation of SOC also poses a challenge to monitoring farmers' management practices and to rewarding carbon sequestration activities. A study conducted on ten Australian farms examined the spatial variability and found that the average variogram had a range of approximately 200 m (Singh & Whelan, 2020). This kind of knowledge renders scientific support for determining the spacing of monitoring locations. Correction methods are also needed to provide meaningful intra- and inter-farm comparisons. A recent study in the UK showed the importance of adjusting SOC measurement results by clay contents, because clay minerals can hold structural water that could be mistakenly included as SOC loss during ignition (Collier et al., 2021). Climate change is considered the greatest global threat to sustainable development. Soil and soil science can play an important role in mitigating climate change, by enhancing carbon sequestration in soil, as well as reducing net emissions of N2O, CO2 and CH4. As soil organic matter can also increase crop yield, enhance soil biodiversity and immobilize some soil pollutants, the intervention strategies aiming at improving SOC can also render great benefits in ensuring food security and soil health. Therefore, in mitigating climate change effects, sustainable soil use and management practices could provide multiple benefits for humanity.
