Title: Sustainability, Circularity, and Innovation in Wood-based Panel Manufacturing in the 2020s: Opportunities and Challenges
Authors: R. Á. Garcia, Ingrid Calvez, Ahmed Koubaa, Véronic Landry, Alain Cloutier
Year: 2024
Venue: Current Forestry Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s40725-024-00229-1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401660710

Abstract:
Purpose of review: This review explores the opportunities and challenges associated with using unconventional and underutilized wood sources, such as fast-growing species, logging residues, fire-damaged wood, and post-consumer wood, to manufacture wood-based composite panels (WBCPs), particularly particleboard, medium-density fiberboard (MDF), and oriented strand board. This paper also discusses recent advancements in lightweight and multifunctional panels, with new features such as fire resistance, electrical conductivity, electromagnetic shielding, and antibacterial laminates. Recent findings: Climate change, wildfires, and competition from the energy sector threaten current sources of fiber supply for WBCP manufacturing in some regions. Logging residues are abundant but underutilized in some areas, and the abundance of fire-damaged wood is expected to increase in the coming years due to climate change. These raw materials' effects on panel properties and technological limitations are discussed. Recycled wood is increasingly used for non-structural panels, but challenges remain when it comes to recycling panels, particularly post-consumer MDF. Conventional and emerging materials used in lightweight and multifunctional panels are also presented. Natural substances like cellulose, nanocellulose, chitosan, lignin, protein, and phytic acid are promising alternatives to conventional fire retardants. Innovative products such as MDF that contains carbon-based conductive fibers and antimicrobial laminates that use green-synthesized metal compounds are also reported. Summary: This review shows that the WBCP industry can improve its sustainability by optimizing and diversifying wood sources, better managing and recycling post-consumer panels, and using more environmentally friendly materials. The hazardous chemicals in adhesives, fire retardants, and coatings are the main obstacles to recycling panels and creating a more circular economy within the WBCP industry.
