Title: Green HRM promotes higher education sustainability: a mediated-moderated analysis
Authors: Zuhair Abbas, Shagufta Sarwar, Mohsin Abdur Rehman, Roman Zámečník, Muhammad Shoaib
Year: 2021
Venue: International Journal of Manpower
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijm-04-2020-0171
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200364716

Abstract:
Purpose In the contemporary world, where sustainability at higher education is at the forefront, the ever-changing business ecosystem nurtures a new drift towards economic, environmental and social performance. This study aims to measure the impact of green human resource management (GHRM) practices on sustainability in the higher education of a developing country context through a theoretical aspect of Resource-Based View (RBV). Design/methodology/approach This study adopted a quantitative approach to propose and test a model based on predictors of sustainability. The survey approach received 190 responses from employees (faculty and non-faculty members) working as a full-time in the 40 higher education institutions (HEIs) of Pakistan. The structural and measurement model was calculated using SmartPLS. Findings The results show that “green training and development” (GTD) and “top management commitment towards greening workforce (TMCGW)” have a positive relationship with sustainability while green recruitment and selection (GRS) was not supported by sustainability. The mediating effect of TMCGW plays a crucial role between GTD and sustainability. Also, this study contributes through the moderating interaction effect of Gender between GTD and sustainability. Overall the GHRM practices promote employee green behavior and sustainability. Originality/value The proposed research model in the current study is a substantial gap in the literature and exploring this connection requires new theoretical frameworks. To bridge this literature gap, this study examined the role of GHRM on sustainability at micro-level (employee perspective) through a theoretical aspect of RBV in the developing country higher education context of Pakistan. Importantly, this study enhances the understanding of the emerging global wave of green mobility and highlights the impact of GHRM practices on sustainability through perception of academic professionals.
