Title: A meta-analysis on the drivers and barriers to the social acceptance of renewable and sustainable energy technologies
Authors: Alessandro Milani, Federica Dessi, Marino Bonaiuto
Year: 2024
Venue: Energy Research & Social Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.erss.2024.103624
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399655597

Abstract:
New sustainable and renewable energy technologies play a central role in mitigating climate change or enabling adaptation. Therefore, the widespread social acceptance of renewable and sustainable energy technologies, for either mitigation or adaptation, plays a crucial role in managing the effects on, and of, climate change. While several studies explored the acceptance of single energy technologies, a comprehensive overview across the extant research is still needed. To address this, 30 random-effects meta-analyses were conducted, examining the influence of beliefs concerning technological, contextual, and personal aspects of the acceptability and acceptance of the principle mitigation and adaptation energy technologies. Possible differences in the social acceptance determinants across the examined technologies were also investigated. Articles included in the present meta-analyses were searched in Scopus, Web of Science, and PsychInfo databases and were selected and included following PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Findings revealed how adopters' beliefs about the relevant adoption social process, together with context- and technology-related beliefs, have a greater impact on social acceptance than purely individual (e.g., cognitive) or sociodemographic variables. Results underscore the importance of understanding the specific social-psychological factors influencing the social acceptance of new energy technologies, advancing our efforts against climate change occurrence and its adverse effects. • Meta-analysis analyzing the social acceptance of sustainable energy technologies. • Perceived benefits are the main predictor of energy technologies' acceptability. • Acceptability is the main predictor of sustainable energy technologies' acceptance.
