Title: Sustainable Marketing and its Impact on the Image of the Company
Authors: Lucia Šujanská, Margaréta Nadányiová
Year: 2023
Venue: Marketing and Management of Innovations
DOI: https://doi.org/10.21272/mmi.2023.2-06
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4383567484

Abstract:
In recent years, sustainability has become increasingly important in a company's image. Customers are becoming more environmentally conscious and demanding that the companies they do business with are also taking steps to reduce their environmental impact. By adopting sustainable practices, companies can demonstrate their commitment to positively impacting the world and building customer trust. This scientific article aims to contribute to a better understanding of the role of sustainability in shaping consumer perceptions of a company's image and provide insights that can help companies develop more effective sustainability strategies and build stronger brand images. The study utilised general scientific methods for processing data, and the data obtained from the online survey were assessed using mathematical-statistical methods and statistical hypothesis testing. Sustainability has become an important aspect of a company's image. With increasing environmental awareness among consumers, companies are expected to take responsibility for their impact on the planet and society. Sustainability in a company's image has become an important aspect of its brand identity, and it can significantly impact its reputation, success, and long-term viability. Consumers are increasingly concerned about the environmental impact of the products they buy and use, and many of them have started to prefer companies that use sustainable practices and produce eco-friendly and sustainable products over those that are not. Companies that embrace sustainability and prioritise environmental and social responsibility are more likely to thrive in a rapidly changing business landscape where consumers are increasingly interested in sustainability and ethical practices. By embracing sustainability, companies can create a positive reputation, build customer trust, and drive long-term success. The added value of the scientific article is that it provides valuable insights and strategies for practising sustainable marketing, which helps to build the company's image. By analysing the impact of sustainability on a company's image, we contribute to the opportunities for companies to improve the brand image and reputation of the company, which can positively increase customer loyalty and trust and gain a competitive advantage in their industry. Therefore, this scientific paper can provide businesses with valuable insights to differentiate themselves from competitors, attract new customers, and increase profit.
