Title: Sustainable development research in Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science and Technology Education: A systematic literature review
Authors: Husamah Husamah, Hadi Suwono, Hadi Nur, Agus Dharmawan
Year: 2022
Venue: Eurasia Journal of Mathematics Science and Technology Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.29333/ejmste/11965
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4226511141

Abstract:
Sustainable development is development that aims to improve the quality of life for all people around the world, both current and future generations. The focus and alignment of researchers on the theme of sustainable development is highly expected, as evidenced by publications in reputable journals, included in educational journals such as Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science and Technology Education (EJMSTE). The purpose of this Systematic Literature Review (SLR) was to review and compare investigations of researches on articles published by EJMSTE so that they are expected to have significant contributions to the topic of sustainable development. This SLR adopts five-step guidelines. The study standards that meet the requirements are, as follows: (i) the data used are from the 2005-2021 publication year; (ii) articles published in English; (iii) full paper can be accessed; and (iv) related to the theme of “sustainable” theme; and (v) only the type of research report articles. It can be concluded that EJMSTE is a pro-sustainable development journal. EJMSTE publishes 22 articles related to the theme of “sustainable”. The most frequently used keywords are sustainable development and sustainability. Dominant authors were from Taiwan and China. We succeeded in formulating four important contributions made by articles published in EJMSTE related to sustainable themes, namely: (i) the urgency of science education in supporting sustainability, ESD, and SDGs funds; (ii) the need for curriculum reform and strengthening the competence of teachers in educational institutions, which are oriented towards sustainability and environmental literacy; (iii) the urgency of using technology that supports sustainability and ESD; and (iv) the urgency of energy efficiency, green marketing, green life cycle, and sustainable tourism to support sustainability. In addition, there are 22 useful educational resources that can be used as references/best practices, which can be implemented at the primary school to higher education levels.
