Title: Moving towards more sustainable diets: Is there potential for a personalised approach in practice?
Authors: Katie P. Davies, Eileen R. Gibney, Aifric O’Sullivan
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jhn.13218
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385619761

Abstract:
Discourse on the relationship between food production, healthy eating and sustainability has become increasingly prominent and controversial in recent years. Research groups often take one perspective when reporting on sustainable diets, and several often neglect considerations for the multiple aspects that make a diet truly sustainable, such as cultural acceptability, differences in nutritional requirements amongst the population and the efficiency of long-term dietary change. Plant-based diets are associated with lower greenhouse gas emissions (GHGEs) and have been linked with better health outcomes, including lower risk of diet-related chronic disease. However, foods associated with higher GHGE, such as lean red meat, fish and dairy, have beneficial nutritional profiles and contribute significantly to micronutrient intakes. Some research has shown that diets associated with lower GHGE can be less nutritionally adequate. Several countries now include sustainability recommendations in dietary guidelines but use vague language such as "increase" or "consume regularly" when referring to plant-based foods. General population-based nutrition advice has poor adherence and does not consider differences in nutritional needs. Although modelling studies show potential to significantly reduce environmental impact with dietary changes, personalising such dietary recommendations has not been studied. Adapting recommendations to the individual through reproducible methods of personalised nutrition has been shown to lead to more favourable and longer-lasting dietary changes compared to population-based nutrition advice. When considering sustainable healthy dietary guidelines, personalised feedback may increase the acceptability, effectiveness and nutritional adequacy of the diet. A personalised approach has the potential for delivering a new structure of more sustainable healthy food-based dietary guidelines. This review evaluates the potential to develop personalised sustainable healthy food-based dietary guidelines and discusses potential implications for policy and practice.
