Title: Transitioning to sustainable E-vehicle systems – Global perspectives on the challenges, policies, and opportunities
Authors: R. Udendhran, T. Roosefert Mohan, Rajendra Babu, R. Annie Uthra, Anupama C. G, S. Selvakumarasamy, Govindaraj Kamalam Dinesh, Moitraiyee Mukhopadhyay, V. K. Saraswat, Paromita Chakraborty
Year: 2025
Venue: Journal of Hazardous Materials Advances
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hazadv.2025.100619
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4406934390

Abstract:
• EV sales rose to 18 % in 2023, showing strong growth from 14 % in 2022. • EV adoption varies globally despite efforts to cut carbon emissions. • Battery lifecycle and infrastructure pose key EV adoption challenges. • Policy gaps hinder global EV adoption and technological advancements. • A global roadmap aligns EV growth with UN sustainability goals. The global shift towards electric vehicles (EVs) is driven by the urgent need for sustainable transportation and reduced fossil fuel dependence. EV sales have surged, accounting for approximately 18% of all vehicle sales in 2023, up from 14% in 2022. However, there are various limitations across geographies in EV adoption despite the rising need to reduce the global carbon footprint. Hence this paper discusses the challenges in EV adoption by analyzing the underlying issues associated with battery lifecycle management, battery degradation, charging infrastructure, and recycling. We observed that the uniform implementation of any technological advances to address these challenges is hampered by the disparities in policy frameworks across high-, low- and middle-income countries. We have outlined the available technologies and equitable infrastructure development such as promoting hybrid and renewable energy-powered systems and establishing formal recycling units to bring in circularity for manufacturing and adoption of EVs in both developed and developing economies. Finally, this paper has provided a roadmap integrating technology, policy, and infrastructure adaptation for an inclusive transition to electric mobility worldwide, aligning with the United Nations sustainable development goals (SDGs) for clean energy (SDG 7), sustainable cities (SDG 11), and responsible consumption (SDG 12). A roadmap integrating technology, policy, and infrastructure adaptation for an inclusive transition to electric mobility worldwide, aligning with the UN's goals for clean energy (SDG 7), innovative infrastructure (SDG 9), sustainable cities (SDG 11), responsible consumption (SDG 12) and climate action (SDG 13).
