Title: Environmental sustainability challenges of China’s steel production: Impact-oriented water, carbon and fossil energy footprints assessment
Authors: Wei Chen, Qian Zhang, Chengxin Wang, Zhaoling Li, Yong Geng, Jinglan Hong, Yu Cheng
Year: 2022
Venue: Ecological Indicators
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2022.108660
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4211075390

Abstract:
The Iron and Steel Industry (ISI) is a difficult-to-mitigate sector that has considerable contributions to energy consumption, water pollution, and CO2 emissions. Despite broad interest in energy consumption and CO2 emissions generated by steel production, there are few impact-oriented Water Footprint (WF) assessments of steel production. This study evaluates the water, carbon and fossil energy footprints generated from rolled steel production on the basis of life cycle assessment. Key contributors attributing to those environmental impacts are also identified so as to explore their potential mitigation. Using the Monte Carlo model, an uncertainty analysis is conducted with the aim of providing reliable results for decision-making. Results show that the impact per ton China’s rolled steel production has on global warming, human health, ecosystem quality, and resources is 4.40 × 103 kg CO2 eq (GSD2 = 1.24), 4.15 × 10-3 Disability Adjusted of Life Years (DALY) (GSD2 = 1.31), 7.08 × 10-5 Species·yr (GSD2 = 2.04), and 4.39 × 104 MJ (GSD2 = 1.28), respectively. Global warming and freshwater ecotoxicity is the dominant contributor to the damage impact on human health and ecosystem quality, respectively. Results also show that the transport (freight ship) of raw materials and the production of iron powder are the two main contributors to the overall impact on the environment that rolled steel production has. Several policy recommendations are proposed in this paper, which focus on adjusting the steel industry’s industrial structure, promoting the national-level carbon emissions trading in the ISI, promoting international cooperation, and improving public awareness of green and low-carbon development. Such policy recommendations provide decision-makers with valuable insights, which thus allow them to prepare the appropriate mitigation policies.
