Title: Predicting the significance of consumer environmental values, beliefs, and norms for sustainable fashion behaviors: The case of second-hand clothing
Authors: Jin Yang, Abdullah Al Mamun, Mohammad Nurul Hassan Reza, Marvello Yang, Norzalita Abd Aziz
Year: 2024
Venue: Asia Pacific Management Review
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmrv.2024.01.001
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391601999

Abstract:
The fast fashion industry has resulted in environmental degradation and resource depletion. Thus, sustainable fashion behaviors are a growing trend for promoting environmental sustainability. However, the sustainable fashion industry, particularly second-hand clothing is still in its infancy, especially in the emerging economies. By extending the value-belief-norm model, this study explores the impact of environmental values (biosphere and altruistic values), beliefs (ecological worldview, awareness of consequences, and ascription of responsibility), and norms (personal and social norms) on second-hand fashion behaviors. This study used cross-sectional design and collected quantitative data from 1847 responses through online survey. For data analysis, this study used partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) and multi-group analysis (MGA). Findings of this study confirmed the positive and significant effect of biosphere and altruistic values on ecological worldview. Ecological worldview, awareness of consequences, and ascription of responsibility also have positive and significant effects on personal norms. Moreover, personal and social norms have a significant positive effect on intentions towards second-hand fashion behaviors. Finally, the intention towards second-hand fashion behaviors has a positive and significant effect on second-hand fashion behaviors. This study validates that environmental values, beliefs, and norms significantly impact sustainable fashion behaviors, particularly in the area of second-hand clothing. This study emphasizes the important role of social norm on second-hand fashion behaviors, and adds research references in the field of emerging economies. The findings provide valuable insights and a reference for fashion industry practitioners to improve their operational strategies. Environmental policies should therefore focus on promoting the consumer's and industry's attention and enthusiasm for second-hand fashion as a sustainable behavior and its environmental consequences, and strengthening the extent of dissemination of the idea.
