Title: Sustainable Lean Six-sigma: A new framework for improve sustainable manufacturing performance
Authors: Dana Marsetiya Utama, Millenia Abirfatin
Year: 2023
Venue: Cleaner Engineering and Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clet.2023.100700
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388949012

Abstract:
Sustainable Manufacturing is essential in supporting a more sustainable production process in the current era. However, continuous improvement research that utilizes Manufacturing Sustainability Index (MSI) scores in improving Sustainable Manufacturing performance is still limited. Therefore, this study aims to propose a new framework for evaluating Manufacturing Sustainability based on lean Six Sigma and sustainable manufacturing concepts using Sustainable Value Stream Mapping (Sus-VSM). We call this new framework Sustainable Lean Six-sigma (SLSS) based on the DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, Control) approach. The SIPOC diagram and the Delphi method are used in the Define stage to select relevant indicators. Then, the selected indicators were evaluated in the Measure stage, and the Manufacturing Sustainability Index (MSI) was calculated. At the Analyze stage, the Sus-VSM is analyzed. At the Improve stage, improvement proposals are made using Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA), and a future Sus-VSM is created. Finally, in the Control stage, check sheets are created to control the implementation of the proposed improvements. In the DMAIC process, Sus-VSM is used as a production flow mapping using a traffic light system to map indicators in each process and MSI values on the production line. A case study was also conducted on the Agro-Food Industry. The results showed that the proposed framework could be implemented in the company and successfully improved the Manufacturing Sustainability Index (MSI) score from 88.78% to 93.80%. The implication of this research shows the potential of using the SLSS framework in improving manufacturing sustainability performance in industrial sectors.
