Title: Modeling the impact of BDA-AI on sustainable innovation ambidexterity and environmental performance
Authors: Chin-Tsu Chen, Asif Khan, Shih‐Chih Chen
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal Of Big Data
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40537-024-00995-6
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402341651

Abstract:
Data has evolved into one of the principal resources for contemporary businesses. Moreover, corporations have undergone digitalization; consequently, their supply chains generate substantial amounts of data. The theoretical framework of this investigation was built on novel concepts like big data analytics—artificial intelligence (BDA-AI) and supply chain ambidexterity’s (SCA) direct impacts on sustainable supply chain management (SSCM) and indirect impacts on sustainable innovation ambidexterity (SIA) and environmental performance (EP). This study selected employees of manufacturing industries as respondents for environmental performance, sustainable supply chain management, big data analytics, artificial intelligence, and supply chain ambidexterity. The results from this study show that BDA-AI and SCA significantly affect SSCM. SSCM has significant associations with SIA and EP. Finally, SIA has a significant impact on EP. According to the results indicating the indirect impacts, BDA-AI has significant indirect relationships with SIA and EP by having SSCM as the mediating variable. Furthermore, SCA has significant indirect associations with SIA and EP, with SSCM as the mediating variable. Additionally, both BDA-AI and SCA have significant indirect associations with EP, while SIA and SSCM are mediating variables. Finally, SSCM has an indirect association with EP while having SIA as a mediating variable. The findings of this paper provide several theoretical contributions to the research in sustainability and big data analytics artificial intelligence field. Furthermore, based on the suggested framework, this study offers a number of practical implications for decision-makers to improve significantly in the supply chain and BDA-AI. For instance, this paper provides significant insight for logistics and supply chain managers, supporting them in implementing BDA-AI solutions to help SSCM and enhance EP.
