Title: Impact of Authentic Leadership, Sustainable Leadership on Sustainable Growth with Mediating Role of Organizational Learning
Authors: Haleema Malik, Muzamil Mehmood
Year: 2022
Venue: Academic Journal of Social Sciences (AJSS )
DOI: https://doi.org/10.54692/ajss.2022.06011681
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4221070093

Abstract:
Sustainable development is an emerging field of research. Sustainable leadership is an effective leadership style but to enhance its effect authentic leadership, which is a new field of effective leadership. Authentic leadership is a multi-dimensional theory, and it has a resemblance to transformational leadership theory. Authentic leadership is a general term, and it can consolidate transformational, charismatic, servant, spiritual, or other forms of leadership styles. Organizational learning is something new introduced by modern management and leadership styles as a strategic tool to improve competitiveness and to even out the organization’s success and compatibility. This research examines methods of implanting sustainable and authentic leadership into sustainable development goals (SDGs) and examined the mediating role of organizational learning between sustainable leadership and SDGs (economic performance, environmental performance, and social performance) as well as the mediating role of organizational learning between authentic leadership and SDGs. The data in this study was collected from the manufacturing industries of Pakistan using a convenient sampling technique. IBM SPSS Statistics tool was used to analyze the data. The results show (a) sustainable leadership has a positive impact on organizational learning (b) authentic leadership has a positive impact on organizational learning (c) organizational learning mediates the relationship between sustainable leadership and SDGs (d) organizational learning mediates the relationship between authentic leadership and economic performance. (e) Organizational learning mediates the relationship between authentic leadership and social performance. The present study offered a detailed study of dynamic capabilities and sustainable development. Effective leadership and management styles are proposed for organizations to combat sustainable development challenges.
