Title: Significant potential and materials used in additive manufacturing technologies towards sustainability
Authors: Abid Haleem, Mohd Javaid, Shanay Rab, Ravi Pratap Singh, Rajiv Suman, Lalit Kumar
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Operations and Computers
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susoc.2023.11.004
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389100657

Abstract:
Additive Manufacturing (AM) has had tremendous applications this decade, speeding up various design, engineering, and manufacturing processes. AM encompasses 3D Printing, 3D Scanning, and software support for designing, printing, and post-processing. It is helpful to the specific stages of the product development cycle by allowing manufacturers to produce better sustainable products than those previously limited by the limitations of traditional production techniques. This technological platform enables engineers and scientists to develop more robust and lighter functional geometries. It triggers an innovative surge in design. AM allows firms to produce complicated components that could not be produced through conventional technologies. 3D printers speed up tool cycles, improve measures and tests, and deliver customised solutions in every element of the development process. 3D printing lays the material in several layers until the product is manufactured per the requirements. This study provides a quick overview of AM, its substantial benefits, and the various types of AM that have been researched. Materials from the three polymers, ceramics, and metals classes have been utilised in all AM processes. This study also discussed the latest developments, featured AM-based process classes, and identified materials used in AM technologies. The authors have identified and discussed seventeen significant potentials of AM and finally discussed AM's potential for Sustainability. 3D printing offers incredible design flexibility, enabling us to build passageways that enhance performance, giving customers and operations great value. The benefits of AM for sustainability are evident in the manufacturing environment today. Readers should be able to access the knowledge structure of the subject through this study, which will assist them in recognising past research, the most active research clusters, and the strength of research relationships.
