Title: Value Chain and ESG Performance as Determinants of Sustainable Lending in Commercial Bank: A Systematic Literature Review
Authors: Kepas Antoni Adrianus Manurung, Hermanto Siregar, Idqan Fahmi, Dedi Budiman Hakim
Year: 2024
Venue: Aptisi Transactions On Technopreneurship (ATT)
DOI: https://doi.org/10.34306/att.v6i1.381
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396664211

Abstract:
Currently, the topic of sustainability is increasingly discussed, including in lending activities in commercial banks about environmental, social, and governance (ESG) aspects. The positive influence of economic aspects on sustainability is generally accepted, but the influence of ESG aspects on sustainability still has no consensus. These opinions address ESG-oriented credit products and lending activities. This paper has two aims related to research questions. The first aim is to identify the factors that play a role in sustainable lending in commercial banks through the value chain concept; the second aim is to elucidate the relationship between factors that play a role in sustainable lending. To achieve this goal, a systematic literature review (SLR) of 1,073 articles from various scientific journals was conducted. There are 18 articles relevant to the banking industry related to credit (bank lending) that are selected and become references for knowing the determinant factors in sustainable lending. Based on the systematic review, there are 8 value chain articles, 9 ESG performance articles, and 1 economic performance article related to sustainable lending. A total of 15 articles show the potential and positive influence of sustainability, consisting of 7 value chain articles regarding the potential to encourage sustainability and 8 ESG performance articles regarding a positive relationship with sustainability. The review revealed that a value chain and ESG performance are the two dominant factors in sustainable lending. The review also found the influence of ESG aspects on sustainability; some argue that there is a positive influence or the opposite, and some argue that they do not see the influence. This review has not been able to explain the causal relationship between these two factors and sustainable lending, so further research is also required.
