Title: European Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care consensus document on sustainability
Authors: Patricio González‐Pizarro, Luca Brazzi, Susanne Koch, Alexandra Trinks, Jane Muret, Niek Sperna Weiland, Gordana Jovanović, Andrea Cortegiani, Tiago Fernandes, Peter Kranke, Anna Malisiova, Paul McConnell, Lucia Misquita, Carolina S. Romero, Federico Bilotta, Edoardo De Robertis, Wolfgang Bühre, the Sustainability National Representatives
Year: 2024
Venue: European Journal of Anaesthesiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1097/eja.0000000000001942
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4390976352

Abstract:
Climate change is a defining issue for our generation. The carbon footprint of clinical practice accounts for 4.7% of European greenhouse gas emissions, with the European Union ranking as the third largest contributor to the global healthcare industry's carbon footprint, after the United States and China. Recognising the importance of urgent action, the European Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care (ESAIC) adopted the Glasgow Declaration on Environmental Sustainability in June 2023. Building on this initiative, the ESAIC Sustainability Committee now presents a consensus document in perioperative sustainability. Acknowledging wider dimensions of sustainability, beyond the environmental one, the document recognizes healthcare professionals as cornerstones for sustainable care, and puts forward recommendations in four main areas: direct emissions, energy, supply chain and waste management, and psychological and self-care of healthcare professionals. Given the urgent need to cut global carbon emissions, and the scarcity of evidence-based literature on perioperative sustainability, our methodology is based on expert opinion recommendations. A total of 90 recommendations were drafted by 13 sustainability experts in anaesthesia in March 2023, then validated by 36 experts from 24 different countries in a two-step Delphi validation process in May and June 2023. To accommodate different possibilities for action in high- versus middle-income countries, an 80% agreement threshold was set to ease implementation of the recommendations Europe-wide. All recommendations surpassed the 80% agreement threshold in the first Delphi round, and 88 recommendations achieved an agreement >90% in the second round. Recommendations include the use of very low fresh gas flow, choice of anaesthetic drug, energy and water preserving measures, "5R" policies including choice of plastics and their disposal, and recommendations to keep a healthy work environment or on the importance of fatigue in clinical practice. Executive summaries of recommendations in areas 1, 2 and 3 are available as cognitive aids that can be made available for quick reference in the operating room.
