Title: Xylanase, xylooligosaccharide and xylitol production from lignocellulosic biomass: Exploring biovalorization of xylan from a sustainable biorefinery perspective
Authors: Gurkanwal Kaur, Prabhpreet Kaur, Jaspreet Kaur, Diksha Singla, Monica Sachdeva Taggar
Year: 2024
Venue: Industrial Crops and Products
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indcrop.2024.118610
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396716447

Abstract:
The development of lignocellulose biomass (LCB) based platform chemicals and other byproducts has become imperative in order to reduce global carbon footprints and maximise utilization of renewable energy sources . LCB derived xylan is an abundantly accessible feedstock that can be subjected to pretreatment and enzymatic bioconversion using microbe-derived xylanolytic secretomes . The enzymatic breakdown of xylan into xylooligosaccharides (XOS) and xylose requires synergistic action of xylanases and other debranching enzymes . XOS, being short chain oligosaccharides , act as substrates to establish the commensal microbiome in the lower gut of animals and exhibit prebiotic properties. Further, D-xylose, a pentose sugar, obtained from xylan hydrolysis can be converted into xylitol (C 5 H 12 O 5 ) which is widely used in food and pharmaceutical industries as an alternative sweetener . The researchers have extensively reviewed cellulose-based biorefineries that focus on integrated product generation. However, valorization of hemicellulosic xylan extracted from agricultural biomass to generate industrially relevant products requires a comprehensive analysis. This article, therefore, highlights sustainable operations using LCB for the production of xylanolytic enzymes, xylooligosaccharides and xylitol . Insights into knowledge gaps and technological challenges have been discussed with a focus on enzymatic hydrolysis of LCB xylan and multi-product framework from a biorefinery standpoint. • Enzymatic extraction of hemicellulosic fraction from lignocellulosic biomass. • Hydrolysis of xylan into xylooligosaccharides using xylanolytic enzyme complex. • Detoxification of hemicellulosic hydrolysate and production of xylitol . • Integration of xylanase, xylooligosaccharide and xylitol bioproduction from a biorefinery standpoint.
