Title: Investigation of the Physical Mechanical Properties and Durability of Sustainable Ultra-High Performance Concrete with Recycled Waste Glass
Authors: Mohamed Amin, Ibrahim Saad Agwa, Nuha S. Mashaan, Shaker Mahmood, Mahmoud H. Abd-Elrahman
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15043085
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4319758781

Abstract:
Construction material sustainability and waste reuse have emerged as significant environmental issues. Concrete is widely used in the building and engineering fields. Ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC), which has remarkably high mechanical properties, has become one of the most common concrete varieties in recent years. As a result, substantial amounts of Portland cement (PC) are frequently used, raising the initial cost of UHPC and restricting its broad use in structural applications. A significant amount of CO2 is produced and a large amount of natural resources are consumed in its production. To make UHPC production more eco-friendly and economically viable, it is advised that the PC in concrete preparations be replaced with different additives and that the recycled aggregates from various sources be substituted for natural aggregates. This research aims to develop an environmentally friendly and cost-effective UHPC by using glass waste (GW) of various sizes as an alternative to PC with replacement ratios of 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50% utilizing glass powder (GP). Fine aggregate “sand (S)” is also replaced by glass particles (G) with replacement ratios of 0%, 50%, and 100%. To accomplish this, 18 mixes, separated into three groups, are made and examined experimentally. Slump flow, mechanical properties, water permeability, and microstructural characteristics are all studied. According to the results, increasing the S replacement ratio with G improved workability. Furthermore, the ideal replacement ratios for replacing PC with GP and S with G to achieve high mechanical properties were 20% and 0%, respectively. Increasing the replacement rate of GP in place of PC at a fixed ratio of G to S resulted in a significant decrease in water permeability values. Finally, a microstructural analysis confirms the experimental findings. In addition, PC100-S100 was the best mix compared to PC100-S50 G50 and PC100-G100.
