Title: Environmental sustainability in obstetrics and gynaecology: A systematic review
Authors: Eva S Cohen, Lisanne H. J. A. Kouwenberg, Kate S. Moody, Nicolaas H. Sperna Weiland, Dionne Kringos, Anne Timmermans, Wouter J.K. Hehenkamp
Year: 2023
Venue: BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/1471-0528.17637
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386046293

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: The healthcare sector is responsible for 4%-10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Considering the broad range of care that obstetricians and gynaecologists provide, mitigation strategies within this specialty could result in significant reductions of the environmental footprint across the whole healthcare industry. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to identify for what services, procedures and products within obstetric and gynaecological care the environmental impact has been studied, to assess the magnitude of such impact and to identify mitigation strategies to diminish it. SEARCH STRATEGY: The search strategy combined terms related to environmental impact, sustainability, climate change or carbon footprint, with the field of obstetrics and gynaecology. SELECTION CRITERIA: emissions, waste generation and energy consumption. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: A systematic literature search was conducted in the databases of MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid) and Scopus, and a grey literature search was performed on Google Scholar and two websites of gynaecological associations. MAIN RESULTS: The scope of the investigated studies encompassed vaginal births, obstetric and gynaecological surgical procedures, menstrual products, vaginal specula and transportation to gynaecological oncologic consultations. Among the highest yielding mitigation strategies were displacing disposable with reusable materials and minimising content of surgical custom packs. The lowest yielding mitigation strategy was waste optimisation, including recycling. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review highlights opportunities for obstetricians and gynaecologists to decrease their environmental footprint in many ways. More high-quality studies are needed to investigate the environmental impact of other aspects of women's and reproductive health care.
