Title: Drivers towards Adopting Modular Integrated Construction for Affordable Sustainable Housing: A Total Interpretive Structural Modelling (TISM) Method
Authors: Ayaz Ahmad Khan, Rongrong Yu, Tingting Liu, Hong Guan, Erwin Oh
Year: 2022
Venue: Buildings
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings12050637
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4280532485

Abstract:
This study features the development of a framework to identify drivers towards increasing adoption of modular integrated construction (MiC) methods for affordable sustainable housing (ASH). The rise of offsite construction (OSC) techniques, especially MiC, has been evident in recent years. MiC’s adoption in ASH is still underdeveloped; however, due to various benefits of MiC over conventional construction methods, it is envisioned to be a significant emerging approach for tackling growing housing demand, and ASH in particular. Although a few prior studies identified some factors for utilization of MiC towards ASH, studies to date have not provided a holistic review of drivers or a comprehensive framework of the interrelationships between such drivers. To address this issue, this study utilizes a three-way process including a systematic literature review, semi-structured interviews and the Total Interpretive Structure Modelling (TISM) method to study the drivers for MiC adoption in ASH. Initially, 111 drivers were extracted from a review of 40 studies in the existing literature. Following that, the significant drivers of MiC adoption for ASH were grouped into cost, time, productivity, quality, environmental, social, policy and demand. Drawing on concepts of systems thinking and graph theory, the TISM model for eight drivers was developed from both the literature review and the interview results. Four levels of hierarchy were found among drivers containing linkage, driving, depending and autonomous. Succeeding the steps of TISM and Reachability Matrix (RM) and Matrice d’ Impacts Croises-Multipication Appliqué a Classement (MICMAC) analysis, social drivers were found to have the highest driving and lowest dependency power, followed by productivity and policy drivers. This signifies the importance of social factors for enhancing MiC adoption for ASH. In addition, a strategic framework of boosting MiC adoption in ASH is also presented, highlighting the key stakeholders and strategies for transformation along with conclusions. This study delivers a wider landscape of drivers for MiC-ASH synergy that may assist practitioners, policy makers and relevant stakeholders to better understand the relationships between the drivers.
