Title: A systematic literature review about local wisdom and sustainability: Contribution and recommendation to science education
Authors: Nurdiyah Lestari, Paidi Paidi, Slamet Suyanto
Year: 2024
Venue: Eurasia Journal of Mathematics Science and Technology Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.29333/ejmste/14152
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391242121

Abstract:
The theme “local wisdom, sustainability, and education” attracted the attention of researchers, and the number of publications began to increase, making it interesting to study. This systematic literature review (SLR) aims to review various research published in journals indexed in Scopus database related to the theme “local wisdom, sustainability, and education”. The review focuses on publication trends as well as the contributions and recommendations that can be obtained. Disbursement was focused on the largest database in the world (Scopus), where 186 articles were obtained. preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analysis model was used to obtain suitable articles, so that finally only 10 articles met the criteria to be analyzed. We obtained data that the dominant research was conducted using a qualitative approach or method. There is no dominant author, and all authors are not related to each other. Local wisdom and sustainability “meet” in the word Indonesia, showing Indonesia’s position and urgency in this study. The theme “local wisdom, sustainability, and education” is still not an interesting issue asking for international collaboration, so research collaboration is still local. We discuss all the findings. We also discuss the contributions and recommendations of the 10 articles analyzed, which can be grouped into aspects of sustainable agriculture, sustainable watershed management, implementation of environmental education curricula, and teacher professionalism development. Contributions and recommendations are aimed at all aspects of education (both formal, non-formal and informal education). Findings can be a consideration or baseline for researchers to study theme of “local wisdom, sustainability, and education” according to their respective backgrounds and objectives.
