Title: Sustainable development goals through reducing food loss and food waste: A comprehensive review
Authors: Sobiya Manzoor, Ufaq Fayaz, Aamir Hussain Dar, Kshirod Kumar Dash, Rafeeya Shams, Iqra Bashir, Vinay Kumar Pandey, Gholamerazi Abdi
Year: 2024
Venue: Future Foods
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fufo.2024.100362
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396553436

Abstract:
• Food loss and waste must be reduced to improve food system efficiency. • Tracking and monitoring food waste and loss can enhance food supply system efficiency. • Predicting fresh product shelf life and acting on it will greatly reduce food waste. • This review can improve food security for a more resource efficient economy. The major sustainability concern is food waste, which might be minimized by more effective redistribution of surplus food, supply chain waste management, and sustainable food management. Due to technological and infrastructure issues that require technology application at a wide scale with minimal environmental impact, food waste and food loss occur at all levels of the supply chain. Strategies for food redistribution, recovery, and reuse provide the economy with extra by-products and financial advantages. Because of the complicated relationships between distributors and suppliers, contractual obligations, inaccurate food demand forecasts, and food standards, changing consumption and production patterns at the industry and market levels is difficult. Based on this the objective of the review was to discuss the strategies for reducing food waste and achieving sustainable development goals and the role of different actors in reducing food wastage and in implementing SDGs. Several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including those related to finishing world hunger (SDG 2), ensuring sustainable agriculture (SDG 2), promoting sustainable economic growth (SDG 8), and combating climate change (SDG 13), among others, have been found to depend on reducing the amount of food that is wasted and have destroyed. Diagrammatic representation of the three spheres of sustainability
