Title: Assessing local capacity for community appropriate sustainable energy transitions in northern and remote Indigenous communities
Authors: Robert McMaster, Bram Noble, Greg Poelzer
Year: 2023
Venue: Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2023.114232
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389841842

Abstract:
Community renewable energy is increasing globally, but many northern and remote Indigenous communities remain energy insecure. Community appropriate sustainable energy solutions requires more than building renewable energy projects – it requires local socio-technical capacity to design, implement, and maintain renewable energy projects. Yet, notwithstanding advances in renewable energy technology there is limited understanding of the socio-technical capacity of northern and remote Indigenous communities to engage in energy transitions. Based on a review of energy transitions scholarship and northern contexts and informed by a workshop engaging northern and Indigenous community members from Canada and Alaska, this paper presents foundational pillars for assessing the socio-technical capacity needs of communities to pursue and sustain local energy transitions. These pillars are inter-dependent and emphasize the importance of local energy champions and inter-local energy networks to enable innovation and capacity building; community values that articulate immediate and longer-term goals for energy transition, including the social and economic opportunities to be realized by a more sustainable energy system; community knowledge of local energy resources, technologies, and opportunities, and embedded skills to support transitions; and the skills innovation to pursue and manage new energy systems, coupled with youth engagement as future community energy leaders. The proposed framework is intended to support the early stages of community energy transition planning. • Energy transition in remote communities involves more than building new projects. • Socio-technical capacity is critical to renewable energy security in remote off-grid areas. • Seven pillars are proposed to guide local capacity assessment for community energy. • Renewable energy in remote communities means self-sufficiency and self-determination.
