Title: Environmental Sustainability: Can Artificial Intelligence be an Enabler for SDGs?
Authors: Gyandeep Chaudhary
Year: 2023
Venue: Nature Environment and Pollution Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.46488/nept.2023.v22i03.027
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386422767

Abstract:
Environmental issues have continued to spur discussions, debates, public outrages, and awareness campaigns, inciting interest in emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence. Its usage is spread across many environmental industries, including wildlife protection, natural resource conservation, clean energy, agriculture, energy management, pollution control, and waste management. In 2017, at the United Nations Artificial Intelligence Summit in Geneva, the UN acknowledged that AI could be an enabler in the sustainable development process towards peace, prosperity, and dignified life for humankind and proposed to refocus on the application of AI in assisting global efforts on sustainable development to eradicate poverty, hunger and to protect the environment as well as to conserve natural resources. It is vital to address environmental sustainability concerns; however, with the advent of AI, most common environmental issues are now solvable by prioritizing human interests. Sustainability encompasses the interrelated areas of the environment, society, and economy. According to the United Nations’ “Our Common Future,” also known as the “Brundtland Report,” it is defined as “development that satisfies current needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” Unfortunately, the Earth is currently facing serious consequences from global warming and climate change, and immediate action is required to encourage the use of environmentally friendly and sustainable products to address these issues. Environmental degradation and climate change are numerous environmental concerns requiring novel and intelligent artificial intelligence solutions. The literature on AI and environmental sustainability encompasses various domains. Notably, AI is being used to address the bulk of regional and global environmental concerns, including energy, water, biodiversity, and transportation, even though many of these sectors have permeated and evolved. However, there is a need to combine current literature on the application of AI, particularly in relation to environmental sustainability in areas such as energy, water, biodiversity, and transportation. There is a significant lack of research on how AI can promote environmental sustainability. This research aims to explore how AI can be applied to address environmental issues in various sectors to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
