Title: Sustainable consumption practices among Chinese youth
Authors: Yingxiu Hong, Abdullah Al Mamun, Mohammad Masukujjaman, Qing Yang
Year: 2024
Venue: Humanities and Social Sciences Communications
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-024-03582-5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401976625

Abstract:
A global crisis caused by unsustainable practices and their detrimental effects on civilization has compelled us to rethink the adoption of green consumption practices. This study aims to determine the determinants of green consumption behavior among Chinese youth. Based on the integrated frameworks of two renowned theories, the knowledge-attitude-practice model and the theory of planned behavior, this study proposes 11 hypotheses for empirical investigation. An online survey was used for a quantitative cross-sectional study with a convenience sample of young Chinese consumers. A dataset comprising 876 observations was examined by applying partial least squares structural equation modeling using Smart-PLS 4.0. The results show that green consumption intention and perceived behavioral control significantly affect green consumption behavior. Attitudes towards eco-social benefits, attitudes towards green consumption, and subjective norms positively affect green consumption intentions. In addition, environmental concern and knowledge positively affected all three attitude dimensions. The study further identified that green self-identity moderates the connection between green consumption intention and green consumption behavior, whereas ecolabelling is not a significant moderator of the same relationship. The theoretical contribution of this study is that it employs multigroup analysis to investigate gender- and income-based variations in the relationships, offering a comprehensive framework integrating theories along with dimensions of attitude, which offers nuanced insights into green consumption behavior. Regarding its policy implications, this study highlights the necessity of promoting environmental concern and knowledge through education and awareness campaigns while supporting eco-social benefits and green consumption practices, which can be a potent way to promote positive attitudes, intentions, and sustainable behaviors among the general population.
