Title: Smart cities software applications for sustainability and resilience
Authors: Ebere Donatus Okonta, Vladimir Vuković
Year: 2024
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e32654
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399655267

Abstract:
To transform urban areas into smart cities, various technologies-including software, user interfaces, communication networks, and the Internet of Things (IoT)-must tackle complex sustainability and resilience issues. This study aims to investigate the challenges of rapid urban population growth and explore how Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) can be utilized to foster the development of smart cities. Specifically, it seeks to understand how the integration of ICT can contribute to enhancing urban resilience, promoting urban sustainability, and improving citizens' quality of life. The study relied on a literature review, appraisals of fifteen (15) different Smart City software applications and their characteristics (spanning various domains, including data analytics, the Internet of Things (IoT), urban mobility, energy management, and citizen engagement platforms, all related to sustainability and resilience), and thirty (30) case studies cutting across sustainability and resilience. Furthermore, thematic analysis from the case studies was used to evaluate the benefits of smart city applications mapped to the six (6) action areas of Smart City. Based on the findings from case studies and smart city software analysis, rapid urbanisation presents multifaceted challenges like traffic congestion, disaster management, environmental degradation, community engagement, economic disparities, and so on. However, adopting Smart City software applications and aligning with various domains, including data analytics, the Internet of Things (IoT), urban mobility, energy management, and citizen engagement platforms, play pivotal roles in addressing these challenges. Further findings reveal that the benefits of smart city software align with the action areas of smart cities, including Governance, Mobility, Economy, Environment, Living, and People. The research offers practical application of smart city software for Urban designs and planners. It highlights the influence of contextual factors across countries on Smart City effectiveness. The study advances ICT-driven urban transformation, enhancing the quality of life in fast-growing cities.
