Title: Environmental and Economic Sustainability Impacts of Metal Additive Manufacturing: A Study in the Industrial Machinery and Aeronautical Sectors
Authors: Afonso Gonçalves, Bruna Ferreira, Marco Leite, Inês Ribeiro
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Production and Consumption
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2023.10.004
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387443327

Abstract:
Metal additive manufacturing has emerged as a promising alternative to conventional manufacturing in various industries, offering advantages like complex geometries and reduced material waste. However, there is a research gap in the form of comparative and industry-specific investigations and case studies to comprehensively assess the environmental and economic impact of metal additive manufacturing. This study focuses on two significant sectors, industrial machinery and aeronautics, to understand how metal additive manufacturing influences environmental and economic sustainability compared to conventional manufacturing. Therefore, taking a life cycle approach, the environmental and economic impacts of this technology are evaluated and compared to conventional manufacturing through representative case studies in the two sectors using life cycle assessment and life cycle cost methodologies. The economic evaluation reveals that metal additive manufacturing reduces the total cost for aeronautical components by 33.2 %, even considering several post-processing operations. While for industrial machinery parts, this cost increases by 79.3 % due to high machine and material cost. However, this technology reduces the potential environmental impact by more than 60 % for both sectors, mainly due to reduced material consumption. The use phase for aeronautical components further contributes to environmental and economic benefits, with significant fuel and CO2 emissions savings. The results emphasize the sector-dependent nature of metal additive manufacturing's environmental and economic impact and underscore the importance of a life cycle perspective for informed decision-making. Some critical points for sustainable adoption of metal additive manufacturing in each sector are equipment investment, the post-processing applied, the material selected or, for the aeronautical industry, the impact of the use phase. Nevertheless, future developments are needed to address powder reuse, optimization, certification, and the social impact of metal additive manufacturing.
