Title: A Systematic Review of Environmental Sustainability in Veterinary Practice
Authors: Maria K. Koytcheva, Leah K. Sauerwein, Tracy L. Webb, Stacey Baumgarn, Sadie Skeels, Colleen Duncan
Year: 2021
Venue: Topics in companion animal medicine
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcam.2021.100550
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3165769176

Abstract:
A transition toward environmentally conscious business practices is underway in many sectors. For healthcare, the topic is both concerning and tragically ironic as hospitals have substantial environmental footprints, which are now known to contribute to significant health problems that the system itself was designed to treat. The human medical field has been proactive in taking steps to reduce waste and carbon emissions by identifying best practices to minimize such impacts. Characterization of needs and gaps has been addressed through reviews of the literature regarding environmental sustainability in the context of human hospitals. Our objective was to replicate methods used in a recent review of environmental sustainability in human hospitals to summarize information available to clinical veterinarians. Two search algorithms were used across 8 databases, however only 3 peer-reviewed opinion articles specific to veterinary medicine were identified. These papers included 1 on anesthesia and 2 on production animals. Interestingly, all articles were written by United Kingdom-based authors and none were specific to companion animal practice, the largest sector in the veterinary industry in the United States. Results of this review highlight need for research and communication that supports veterinary clinics in adopting more environmentally sustainable practices. Proposed starting points informed from research in other sectors, including 5 physical themes of energy efficiency, water, waste, sustainable procurement, and transportation, and human behavior changes on the individual, group, and organizational levels, are discussed. Additional work is needed to support veterinarians and other animal health professionals to practice medicine in a way that upholds the veterinary profession's oath to promote the health of animals, the public, and the environment we all share.
