Title: Reducing the environmental impact of international aviation through sustainable aviation fuel with integrated carbon capture and storage
Authors: Alberto Almena, Regina Siu, Katie Chong, Patricia Thornley, Mirjam Röder
Year: 2024
Venue: Energy Conversion and Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2024.118186
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391805043

Abstract:
Sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs) represent the short-term solution to reduce fossil carbon emissions from aviation. The Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) was globally adopted to foster and make SAFs production economically competitive. Fischer-Tropsch synthetic paraffinic kerosene (FT-SPK) produced from forest residue is a promising CORSIA-eligible fuel. FT conversion pathway permits the integration of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, which provides additional carbon offsetting capacities. The FT-SPK with CCS process was modelled to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the conversion pathway. Life-cycle assessment (LCA) with a well-to-wake approach was performed to quantify the SAF’s carbon footprint considering both biogenic and fossil carbon dynamics. Results showed that 0.09 kg FT-SPK per kg of dry biomass could be produced, together with other hydrocarbon products. Well-to-wake fossil emissions scored 21.6 gCO2e per MJ of FT-SPK utilised. When considering fossil and biogenic carbon dynamics, a negative carbon flux (-20.0 gCO2eMJ−1) from the atmosphere to permanent storage was generated. However, FT-SPK is limited to a 50 %mass blend with conventional Jet A/A1 fuel. Using the certified blend reduced Jet A/A1 fossil emissions in a 37 %, and the net carbon flux resulted positive (30.9 gCO2eMJ−1). Sensitivity to variations in process assumptions was investigated. The lifecycle fossil-emissions reported in this study resulted 49 % higher than the CORSIA default value for FT-SPK. In a UK framework, only 0.7 % of aviation fuel demand could be covered using national resources, but the emission reduction goal in aviation targeted for 2037 could be satisfied when considering CCS.
