Title: Hybrid Energy Piles as a Smart and Sustainable Foundation
Authors: Gianpiero Russo, Gabriella Marone, Luca Di Girolamo
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of Human Earth and Future
DOI: https://doi.org/10.28991/hef-2021-02-03-010
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4206232519

Abstract:
The disused factories’ areas represent a considerable part of the industrial archaeology of the city of Naples. In the last decades of the previous century, many of these factories were disused also because of the ban of asbestos production by the Italian law 257/1992. Of course, this was not the only problem that concurred to create a large amount of disused industrial areas. Often the simple delocalisation of manufactories in other countries contributed to this problem. The reuse of these areas requires polluted and contaminated land reclamation. The simple removal of the shallow soil layers is a widely used reclamation procedure. Furthermore, drilling operations either for piling or for tunnelling may incur in the same type of problem taking into account that this movement can be very expensive depending on the total volume of soil to be removed and to be taken to disposal. In this study a hybrid pile type is proposed as an environmentally friendly and a cheap solution. Hybrid piles are installed by a combination of pushing and augering technique. This installation method allows avoiding the removal and the subsequent disposal of shallow contaminated soil. The mechanical behaviour of three hybrid piles equipped with strain gauges along the shaft is investigated via three loading tests. In the framework of the design of a new mall in a disused industrial area, the opportunity to provide a fully sustainable foundation solution by equipping the piles with heat exchangers pipes is also investigated. Numerical simulations of the energy hybrid pile behaviour are presented outlining further benefits of the new hybrid installation technique and comparing two different configuration of the heat exchanger pipes. Doi: 10.28991/HEF-2021-02-03-010 Full Text: PDF
