Title: Higher Education For Sustainability: A Global Perspective
Authors: Inga Žalėnienė, Paulo Pereira
Year: 2021
Venue: Geography and sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geosus.2021.05.001
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3163995701

Abstract:
Higher education institutions have an essential role in sustainability. They are key agents in the education of future leaders that will contribute to the successful United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) implementation. The geography of SDGs this implementation is very heterogeneous, but it is clear that higher education institutions contribute decisively to creating a mindset that facilitates the dissemination of SDGs principle. This perspective paper analyses the impacts of higher education on sustainability and the challenges and barriers associated with this process. Higher education contributes decisively to the SDGs implementation, but especially to Goal 1 (end poverty in all its forms everywhere), Goal 3 (ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages), Goal 5 (gender equality), Goal 8 (decent work and economic growth), Goal 12 (responsible consumption and production), Goal 13 (climate change) and Goal 16 (peace, justice and strong institutions). As a transformational agent, the higher education sector has a tremendous impact on students' habit and contribution to a prosperous society. However, to establish the required change in education, sustainability principles need to be at the heart of higher institutions strategy (e.g., curricula, modus operandi) and is key to be incorporated in the organisational culture. Only by leading by example, the external influence in the society will be possible (e.g., implementing SDGs key aspects such as gender quality, reduce waste reduction and energy consumption). For this to be a reality, different communication methods with students are needed (e.g., different student academic levels). Nevertheless, critical challenges need to be tackled in the institutions inside and outside the institution environment, such as incorporating sustainability principles, political environment and stakeholders' interest.
