Title: Healthcare Waste and Sustainability: Implications for a Circular Economy
Authors: Abrar Mahjoob, Yousef Alfadhli, Vincent K. Omachonu
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15107788
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4376115239

Abstract:
The field of healthcare waste systems is an emerging research field with new methodologies being developed to reinforce sustainability. Medical treatments are becoming more sophisticated and in demand due to increasing incidences of chronic disease. Healthcare is also becoming widely available worldwide. Healthcare waste disposal includes multiple disposal methods including incineration, landfilling, and chemical treatments. These rudimentary methods and their increased prevalence present their own problems that negatively impact both the environment and public health. As a result, there is a global call for healthcare waste systems to transition from a linear to a circular economy (CE). The CE philosophy is employed in other waste management industries. There are limited studies, however, that assess the challenges to CE implementation, particularly in the United States. This research presents the challenges to the implementation of a CE in healthcare waste management systems. The challenges were determined by an extensive literature review. Three experts from the industry verified and provided additional context to the challenges through meetings. The challenges were grouped into seven categories: supply chain management, regulations and policies, industry, organizations internal, technology and operational, economic, and funding, and social. A decision-making trial and evaluation (DEMATEL) was used to rank the challenges and illustrate interrelationships between the challenges. The most significant challenge was found to be a lack of governmental legislation on CE healthcare policies, followed by a lack of a realistic CE business model and lack of consumer interest in the environment. The research will provide context to further developments into adopting CE practices. The limitations and future scope of the research are presented.
