Title: Sustainable Synthesis and Characterization of Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles Using Raphanus sativus Extract and Its Biomedical Applications
Authors: Ahmed Abdullah Al Awadh, Anil R. Shet, Laxmikant R. Patil, Ibrahim Ahmed Shaikh, Mohammed Merae Alshahrani, Roshan Nadaf, Mater H. Mahnashi, Shivalingsarj V. Desai, Uday M. Muddapur, Sharanappa Achappa, Veeranna S. Hombalimath, Aejaz Abdullatif Khan, Helen Suban Mohammed Gouse, S. M. Shakeel Iqubal, Vijay Kumbar
Year: 2022
Venue: Crystals
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/cryst12081142
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4291367077

Abstract:
Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles (ZnONPs) are one of the most widely used metal oxide nanoparticles in biological applications because of their outstanding biocompatibility, affordability, and low toxicity. In biomedicine, ZnONPs have shown promise, particularly in the disciplines of anticancer and antibacterial fields. In comparison to other standard synthesis methods, the environmentally-friendly synthesis of metallic nanoparticles utilizing various plant extracts is a good option. The current research focuses on the synthesis of zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnONPs) from R. sativus leaf extract under various physical conditions (Precipitation method). Analytical methods were used to confirm and characterize the produced ZnONPs. The spherical nature of the produced nanoparticles was established by SEM analysis. The generation of very pure ZnONPs was confirmed by EDS data. The crystalline nature of the produced nanoparticles, with a particle size of 66.47 nm, was confirmed by XRD. The XRD graphs’ presence of the (100), (002), and (101) planes strongly suggest the production of wurtzite ZnO. The visual and infrared area exhibits transmissions of 84 percent in the pH 10 nanoparticles. The band gap of the nanoparticles increases from 3.34 to 3.38 eV when the pH increases. These nanoparticles were effective against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The effect of several process parameters such as pH and temperature were investigated, and the best conditions were discovered to be pH 12 and 80 °C, respectively. The effect of ZnONPs was tested with human breast cancer cells (MCF-7), and they showed significant cytotoxic results. Collectively, our data suggest that ZnONPs of R. sativus leaf extract inhibit breast cancer cell lines. The ZnONPs are, therefore, a prospective source of chemopreventive drugs that merit additional exploration in order to uncover lead compounds with cancer chemotherapeutic potential.
