Title: Barriers and strategies for sustainable manufacturing implementation in SMEs: A hybrid fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS framework
Authors: Ahmad Saifizul Abdullah, Shantanu Saraswat, Faisal Talib
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Manufacturing and Service Economics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.smse.2023.100012
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4361291421

Abstract:
Due to growing sustainability challenges, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are under tremendous pressure to implement sustainable practices in their operations. Studies in this regard show that in almost all cases, transition from a traditional approach to sustainable manufacturing is not at all a smooth experience as it is fraught with pitfalls on several counts at the implementation stage. Therefore, analyzing probable barriers and implementing right set of strategies duly addressing them becomes utmost crucial to successfully implementing the sustainable manufacturing practices. The study particularly aims at identifying and prioritizing such strategies to overcome the very barriers in the implementation phase. The study identified some twenty one odd barriers through an extensive literature review and expert opinions and classified them into four categories. In the same way, nine specific strategies were identified to address the barriers through a comprehensive literature review. An Integrated Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process-Fuzzy Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (FAHP-FTOPSIS) approach has been used to further prioritize the barriers and strategies for sustainable manufacturing implementation in Indian manufacturing SMEs. The result depicts that, “Ineffective enforcement of the law (B22)”, “Complexity in implementing 6Rs (B17)”, “Ineffective controlling and monitoring system (B24)”, “Need for a standardized approach to carbon auditing (B15)” and “Heavy dependence on fossil fuels (B14)” are the top five barriers that hamper smooth implementation of sustainable manufacturing whereas, out of the nine proposed strategies “Implementation of lean and green manufacturing techniques (S2)” and “Establishment of benchmark and performance measuring systems (S6)” were found to be the two most important strategies that should be employed to eliminate the identified barriers. The findings provide strategic insights into guiding decision-makers and practitioners of Indian manufacturing SMEs in regards to sustainable manufacturing implementation. Besides, this study also assists managers by way of providing them with a hierarchical list of strategies ranked in order of their effectiveness to potentially eliminate the implementation barriers.
