Title: Phosphorus-Solubilizing Microorganisms: A Key to Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Leandro Israel da Silva, Marlon Corrêa Pereira, André Mundstock Xavier de Carvalho, Victor Hugo Buttrós, Moacir Pasqual, Joyce Dória Rodrigues Soares
Year: 2023
Venue: Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13020462
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321105482

Abstract:
Phosphorus (P) is one of the essential macronutrients for plant growth, being a highly required resource to improve the productive performance of several crops, especially in highly weathered soils. However, a large part of the nutrients applied in the form of fertilizers becomes “inert” in the medium term and cannot be assimilated by plants. Rationalizing the use of phosphorus is a matter of extreme importance for environmental sustainability and socioeconomic development. Therefore, alternatives to the management of this nutrient are needed, and the use of P-solubilizing microorganisms is an option to optimize its use by crops, allowing the exploration of less available fractions of the nutrient in soils and reducing the demand for phosphate fertilizers. The objective of this study is to discuss the importance of phosphorus and how microorganisms can intermediate its sustainable use in agriculture. In this review study, we present several studies about the role of microorganisms as phosphorus mobilizers in the soil. We describe the importance of the nutrient for the plants and the main problems related to the unsustainable exploitation of its natural reserves and the use of chemical fertilizers. Mainly we highlight how microorganisms constitute a fundamental resource for the release of the inert portion of the nutrient, where we describe several mechanisms of solubilization and mineralization. We also discussed the benefits that the inoculation of P-solubilizing microorganisms provides to crops as well as practices of using them as bioinoculants. The use of microorganisms as inoculants is a viable resource for the future of sustainable agriculture, mainly because its application can significantly reduce the application of P and, consequently, reduce the exploitation of phosphorus and its reserves. In addition, new research must be conducted for the development of new technologies, prospecting new biological products, and improvement of management practices that allow for higher efficiency in the use of phosphorus in agriculture.
