Title: Reuse of Sawdust in Developing Countries in the Light of Sustainable Development Goals
Authors: Udeme U. Udokpoh, Chidozie Charles Nnaji
Year: 2023
Venue: Recent Progress in Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.21926/rpm.2301006
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4315795836

Abstract:
The several furniture-making phases, from cutting to processing to polishing, produce a significant volume of sawdust of differing grades. The extraction and disposal of such waste in developing countries with no established or sustainable methods is an increasing problem, frequently posing environmental challenges. Sawdust is one of the most underused wood waste portions, with mounds dispersed around the region, detracting from its visual appeal and causing other ecological concerns. This study investigated potential applications of sawdust as it concerns sustainable development. It sought to employ an extensive systematic literature review to establish that sawdust, which is often a nuisance at sawmills, may be put to beneficial uses. Four cardinal focus areas of this study are (i) energy generation, (ii) environmental protection/pollution containment, (iii) building construction, and (iv) water treatment/supply. Specifically, the study dealt with the feasibility of energy generation from sawdust through sawdust cook stoves, briquetting, and pyrolysis; pollution containment through sawdust-derived adsorbent; affordable building construction through sawdust-based ceiling boards and particles boards; and (iv) water treatment using point of use (PoU) sawdust-clay water filter. Based on over two hundred (200) published papers consulted in this study, it was strongly established that sawdust had found successful wide application in all four thematic areas with strategic connection to the objectives of SDGs 3.0, 6.0, 7.0, 9.0, 11.0 and 12.0. This research believes that emphasis on sustainable sawdust management can help transform the over 1.5 million tonnes of sawdust waste burned or dumped indiscriminately into value-added products each year.
