Title: Investigation on the impact of elevated temperature on sustainable geopolymer composite
Authors: Manvendra Verma, Rahul Kumar Meena, Indrajeet Singh, Nakul Gupta, Kuldeep K. Saxena, M. Madhusudhan Reddy, Karrar Hazim Salem, Ummal Salmaan
Year: 2023
Venue: Advances in Mechanical Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1177/16878132231196402
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386964813

Abstract:
Geopolymer concrete (GPC) is an eco-friendly, sustainable, cementless and green concrete. It could be an alternative to the conventional concrete. In alkaline circumstances, the alumina and silica concentration in geopolymer concrete creates the geopolymer bond, while regular concrete creates C-S-H (calcium silicate hydrate bond). The final result of the geopolymer bond does not include any water. At elevated temperatures, geopolymer concrete would thus be more stable. Due to its greater strength and durability quality, geopolymer concrete may be the ideal replacement for ordinary portland cement (OPC) concrete. This research intends to examine how specimens of geopolymer concrete and regular concrete respond to exposure to increased temperatures between 100°C and 800°C. Mass loss, ultrasonic pulse velocity, compressive strength, X-ray diffraction, thermogravimetric analysis and derivative thermogravimetric analysis were all examined throughout the experimental examination. Both concrete specimens lose mass or weight as the exposure temperature rises; OPC concrete samples spalls at 600°C, while GPC sample fail at 800°C. GPC specimens lose around 12% of their original mass after being exposed to temperatures of 800°C, while OPC specimens lose about 7%. The GPC specimens maintained 60% of their initial compressive strength after being exposed to a temperature of 700°C, but the OPC concrete specimens only kept 52%. With each increase in exposure to extreme temperatures, the peaks of quartz and cristobalite are lowered. Only the form or structure of the mineral oxide would change; the chemical linkages would remain. The GPC samples subjected to temperatures of 100°C exhibit effective thermal stability than all other specimens exposed to extreme temperatures. As the exposure temperature rises, the GPC specimens become more thermally stable. According to the experimental findings, the GPC specimens’ bonding structure makes them more resistant to high temperatures than regular concrete specimens. Micropores are present in the voids of the geopolymer matrix, while mesopores and micropores are present in the voids of the OPC matrix. While OPC bonding is C-S-H formed by the hydration of lime and silica contained in the cement, the geopolymer bonding did not include the water content in the final or end result of geopolymerisation for strengthening.
