Title: Mediterranean Dietary Pattern for Healthy and Active Aging: A Narrative Review of an Integrative and Sustainable Approach
Authors: Polina Dobroslavska, Maria Leonor Silva, Filipa Vicente, Paula Pereira
Year: 2024
Venue: Nutrients
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/nu16111725
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399208770

Abstract:
The global population is on a trajectory of continuous growth, with estimates projecting an increase from 7.7 billion in 2019 to approximately 9.7 billion by 2050. Longevity is also expected to rise rapidly, with advancements in healthcare contributing to increased life expectancies and an increase in the maximum lifespan. The aging process is accompanied by different changes, often leading to a decline in daily life activities and an increased susceptibility to disease. Age-related changes can cause cellular damage and subsequent cellular death. Oxidative stress and inflammation play significant roles in this process contributing to molecular damage and mitochondrial dysfunction. Active aging has been associated with improved quality of life and a reduced risk of morbidity and premature mortality. In this context, the Mediterranean diet has emerged as a promising approach to promoting healthy aging and sustainability. The phytochemical compounds within the Mediterranean diet have been linked to a lower risk of developing cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, obesity, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. The findings of peer-reviewed articles regarding the use of the Mediterranean diet as a healthy and sustainable dietary pattern written in Portuguese, Spanish or English were included in this narrative literature review. This dietary pattern's emphasis on the consumption of fresh and local food aligns with both health and environmental sustainability goals. This work provides a comprehensive review of the benefits of the Mediterranean diet and its components in a healthy aging process and highlights the importance of this dietary pattern as a sustainable approach.
