Title: Silkworm Bombyx mori—Sustainability and Economic Opportunity, Particularly for Romania
Authors: Mihaela Hăbeanu, Anca Gheorghe, Teodor Mihalcea
Year: 2023
Venue: Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13061209
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4380046771

Abstract:
The main concerns and challenges of raising silkworms include economic value, mulberry management, biodiversity conservation of genetic resources, and developing highly productive breeds for genetic variety. This study investigated the relationship between the economic relevance of the products generated throughout the value chain, limitations, and opportunities to generate incomes for sericulture farmers, trends, and perspectives worldwide, particularly in Romania. Seventy-seven publications were considered from online databases. The diversification of products generated at each level of the value chain of silkworm rearing and their multipurpose applications impact social and economic life. Hence, silk is well known as a valuable biomaterial for industry, suitable for textile and medicine. There are several arguments to use silkworms in human food even though they are not yet authorized as edible insects at the European level. Thus, as a nutrient-rich by-product, silkworm pupae (extract, cakes, and oil) have medicinal properties and can be used for human and animal nutrition. Sericin, silk fibroin, and chitin are bioactive compounds in cocoons and pupae with pharmacological implications and drug composition, while biomass is suitable for biodiesel and excreta for compost. The farmers’ attitudes and mentality associated with political circumstances influence the perspectives for the sericulture field. Due to the high likelihood of using their products, small-medium-scale farmers might benefit sericulture by identifying new sales marketplaces and finding new beneficiaries for directing their multiple products. The funds allotted by government subventions for supporting this fascinating activity and opportunities for jobs may aid in encouraging to start of a new sericulture business or to contribute developing the existing one.
