Title: Sustainable waste management of medical waste in African developing countries: A narrative review
Authors: Jade Megan Chisholm, Reza Zamani, Abdelazim M. Negm, Noha Said, Mahmoud M. Abdel daiem, Mahdieh Dibaj, Mohammad Akrami
Year: 2021
Venue: Waste Management & Research The Journal for a Sustainable Circular Economy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1177/0734242x211029175
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3181972740

Abstract:
Africa is the second populous continent, and its population has the fastest growing rate. Some African countries are still plagued by poverty, poor sanitary conditions and limited resources, such as clean drinking water, food supply, electricity, and effective waste management systems. Underfunded healthcare systems, poor training and lack of awareness of policies and legislations on handling medical waste have led to increased improper handling of waste within hospitals, healthcare facilities and transportation and storage of medical waste. Some countries, including Ethiopia, Botswana, Nigeria and Algeria, do not have national guidelines in place to adhere to the correct disposal of such wastage. Incineration is often the favoured disposal method due to the rapid diminishment of up to 90% of waste, as well as production of heat for boilers or for energy production. This type of method - if not applying the right technologies - potentially creates hazardous risks of its own, such as harmful emissions and residuals. In this study, the sustainability aspects of medical waste management in Africa were reviewed to present resilient solutions for health and environment protection for the next generation in Africa. The findings of this research introduce policies, possible advices and solutions associated with sustainability and medical waste management that can support decision-makers in developing strategies for the sustainability by using the eco-friendly technologies for efficient medical waste treatment and disposal methods and also can serve as a link between the healthcare system, decision-makers, and stakeholders in developing health policies and programmes.
