Title: Digital Twin Simulation Tools, Spatial Cognition Algorithms, and Multi-Sensor Fusion Technology in Sustainable Urban Governance Networks
Authors: Elvira Nica, Gheorghe H. Popescu, Miloš Poliak, Tomáš Klieštik, Oana Matilda Sabie
Year: 2023
Venue: Mathematics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/math11091981
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4366828751

Abstract:
Relevant research has investigated how predictive modeling algorithms, deep-learning-based sensing technologies, and big urban data configure immersive hyperconnected virtual spaces in digital twin cities: digital twin modeling tools, monitoring and sensing technologies, and Internet-of-Things-based decision support systems articulate big-data-driven urban geopolitics. This systematic review aims to inspect the recently published literature on digital twin simulation tools, spatial cognition algorithms, and multi-sensor fusion technology in sustainable urban governance networks. We integrate research developing on how blockchain-based digital twins, smart infrastructure sensors, and real-time Internet of Things data assist urban computing technologies. The research problems are whether: data-driven smart sustainable urbanism requires visual recognition tools, monitoring and sensing technologies, and simulation-based digital twins; deep-learning-based sensing technologies, spatial cognition algorithms, and environment perception mechanisms configure digital twin cities; and digital twin simulation modeling, deep-learning-based sensing technologies, and urban data fusion optimize Internet-of-Things-based smart city environments. Our analyses particularly prove that virtual navigation tools, geospatial mapping technologies, and Internet of Things connected sensors enable smart urban governance. Digital twin simulation, data visualization tools, and ambient sound recognition software configure sustainable urban governance networks. Virtual simulation algorithms, deep learning neural network architectures, and cyber-physical cognitive systems articulate networked smart cities. Throughout January and March 2023, a quantitative literature review was carried out across the ProQuest, Scopus, and Web of Science databases, with search terms comprising “sustainable urban governance networks” + “digital twin simulation tools”, “spatial cognition algorithms”, and “multi-sensor fusion technology”. A Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis (PRISMA) flow diagram was generated using a Shiny App. AXIS (Appraisal tool for Cross-Sectional Studies), Dedoose, MMAT (Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool), and the Systematic Review Data Repository (SRDR) were used to assess the quality of the identified scholarly sources. Dimensions and VOSviewer were employed for bibliometric mapping through spatial and data layout algorithms. The findings gathered from our analyses clarify that Internet-of-Things-based smart city environments integrate 3D virtual simulation technology, intelligent sensing devices, and digital twin modeling.
