Title: Teaching Sustainability through Traditional Sporting Games
Authors: Rafael Luchoro-Parrilla, Pere Lavega Burgués, Miguel Pic
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16135510
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400127350

Abstract:
Traditional sports games (TSGs), deeply rooted in local culture, serve as valuable resources for educating in sustainable development, aligning with guidelines set forth by international resolutions such as the Agenda 2030. This study investigated how ethnomotor variables in the educational use of TSGs with objects influenced emotional well-being and the acquisition of significant and contextualised physical and social sustainability learning involving various educational agents. The study adopted a qualitative and inductive approach centred on an ethnomotor intervention to promote sustainable learning within and beyond the educational setting. A total of 226 primary school students aged between 11 and 12 from seven primary education centres in the Canary Islands, Spain participated. Seven intervention sessions were conducted, including out-of-school activities involving family members and in-school activities with the collaboration of teaching staff and a specialised researcher. Various data collection instruments were employed (field notes, questionnaires, and interviews). A content analysis of qualitative data was conducted and subsequently transformed into quantitative data. For statistical analyses of these data, multidimensional frequency areas, crosstab (Pearson’s chi-square), associated effect size (Cramer’s V), and decision trees were utilised. This research discusses the relevance of TSGs as tools for promoting physically and socially sustainable learning. Furthermore, the role of various educational agents, including family members, teachers, and teacher-researchers, in developing these experiences is highlighted. The findings also highlight emotional well-being (psychosocial and socio-emotional affectivity) as a key aspect in the process of meaningful and contextualised sustainable learning.
