Title: Recent progress in electrospun polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)-based nanofibers for sustainable energy and environmental applications
Authors: Fatemeh Mokhtari, Akbar Samadi, Ahmed O. Rashed, Xue Li, Joselito M. Razal, Lingxue Kong, Russell J. Varley, Shuaifei Zhao
Year: 2024
Venue: Progress in Materials Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmatsci.2024.101376
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402639251

Abstract:
Clean energy, water, and air are all critical to the sustainable development of humanity. Electrospun nanofibers, including nanofibrous membranes, have attracted enormous interest for energy and environmental applications, whether for energy generation and storage, or separation and purification. Electrospun polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF)-based nanofibers, in particular, have been extensively studied for various applications (e.g., separation membranes) due to their excellent thermal and chemical stabilities, superior mechanical strength, and excellent processability. In this review, we initially explore PVDF as a preferred material for nanofiber fabrication via electrospinning, highlighting its unique chemistry. Subsequently, we discuss common electrospinning techniques, structures, and the functionality of the resultant nanofibers. As electrospun nanofibers often exhibit relatively open structures with large pores and high porosity, requiring further modification, we consolidate and analyze several pivotal modification methods for electrospun nanofibers, including crosslinking, surface coating, and assembly. We also explore the applications of electrospun PVDF-based nanofibers for clean energy and sustainable environment, including energy harvesting and storage, self-powered sensors, water treatment through different membrane processes, gas separation, and environmental sensing. Finally, we discuss the prospects of electrospun PVDF-based nanofibers for clean energy and sustainable environment. This review provides important guidance on developing desirable electrospun PVDF-based nanofibers and harnessing their capabilities to achieve a sustainable future characterized by clean energy, clean water, and clean air.
