Title: Green HRM and Teaching Sustainability in higher education Institutions: For Promoting Sustainable Education and Sustainable Development Goals
Authors: K. M. Mahesh, P. S. Aithal, K. R. S. Sharma
Year: 2024
Venue: International Journal of Case Studies in Business IT and Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.47992/ijcsbe.2581.6942.0345
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393378448

Abstract:
Purpose: Sustainable education is achieved through Green Human Resource Management practices such as virtual interviews, training, e-meetings, recycling, green payroll, energy-efficient office spaces, and raising awareness among teaching faculty about pedagogical techniques that connect the environment, economy, and society in the fields of education, agriculture, and medicine by utilizing the Teachers, Students, and Education Institutions (TSE) approach to developing 21st-century skills with multidisciplinary, Interdisciplinary, research, incubation for Student Nirbhar (SN) through business leaders, marketing experience lab, sustainable entrepreneurship with AI, Chat GPT, allowing faculty members to participate in Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) based approaches to building a better world, quality of life, and values for future generations. UNESCO emphasizes that course metrics should include Sustainable Development Goals. Green HRM and Teaching Sustainability in Higher Education can be met. SDG-1: No Poverty SDG-4: Quality Education, SDG-5: Gender Equality, SDG-8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG-9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure; SDG-10: Reduced InequalitySDG-13: Climate Action, SDG-16: Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions, and SDG-17 SDG-17: Partnerships for the Goals It is possible to meet 9 of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for a sustainable livelihood and an inclusive society. Methodology: This study is solely based on secondary data, case studies, and the literature reviews of several scholars. The study collects information from online journals, e-papers, newspaper stories, and websites for the present research article. Analysis/Results: The Main impact of this research paper A case study on NIRBHAR-SREE KUTUMBH and ABCD analysis gives more insight into Green HRM in HEIs sustainability. Originality/Value: The institutional 3’sP sustainability model highlights higher educational institutions, GHRM (Green Human Resource Management) - People &amp; Planet, Policy and Program for Institutional Sustainability and this original study highlights its significance. Type of Research: Conceptual research. Social Implication: Research article as created on the environment as well as social awareness in the HEIs through, Institutional 3p’s Sustainability Model.
