Title: Development and Validation of User Experience-Based E-Learning Acceptance Model for Sustainable Higher Education
Authors: Baqar Ali Zardari, Zahid Hussain, Aijaz Ahmed Arain, Wajid Hussain Rizvi, Muhammad Saleem Vighio
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13116201
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3169691847

Abstract:
E-learning is a convenient way of learning through a portal. E-learning is being increasingly adopted in the world; however, the factors that influence the intention of users for accepting the e-learning technology have not been sufficiently explored, particularly in developing countries. Although many e-learning acceptance models do exist, the research on a user experience (UX)-based e-learning acceptance model is still lacking. As UX is one of the crucial factors for the acceptance of an e-learning portal, this research study aims to develop and validate a UX-based e-learning acceptance framework for sustainable higher education. In this connection, a web-based responsive e-learning portal for university students has been developed. The portal can be accessed from anywhere, at any time, and on any device, making the learning sustainable. The UX-based e-learning acceptance framework is developed by integrating the selected constructs of a widely accepted UX model, technology acceptance model (TAM), and four well-known constructs from various technology acceptance models. The constructs are appeal, pleasure, satisfaction, perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, information quality, self-efficacy, social influence, benefits, and behavioral intention, which can predict the intentions of the students for acceptance of the e-learning portal. The data were collected from 650 university students using online and manual questionnaires. After data screening, 513 valid responses were further analyzed using structural equation modeling. According to the results, the framework fits the data well. The constructs satisfaction, perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, information quality, self-efficacy, social influence, and benefits have a statistically significant effect on the behavioral intention of the students regarding the acceptance of the e-learning portal. The construct perceived ease of use has a statistical significant impact on perceived usefulness and pleasure. The construct appeal has a statistical significant impact on pleasure and satisfaction. Similarly, the construct pleasure has also a positive statistical significant impact on satisfaction. This research study contributes to the e-learning acceptance models by developing and validating the UX-based e-learning acceptance framework for sustainable higher education. The framework provides important insights for the acceptance of university based e-learning portals in the context of developing countries.
