Title: Organizational Culture Management as an Element of Innovative and Sustainable Development of Enterprises
Authors: Zhanna Mingaleva, Elena Shironina, Elena Lobova, Vasiliy Olenev, Lyubov Plyusnina, А.В. Оборина
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14106289
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281257235

Abstract:
The paper is aimed at determining the relationship between personal and organizational values in an innovative company, and the compliance of the basic elements of the organizational culture of an enterprise to the requirements of its innovative development. The main goal of the study is to determine how to improve personnel activity by changing the organizational culture. To achieve the goal of this study, a survey of employees of an innovative Russian company is conducted in order to determine the compliance of the organizational culture as a whole, as well as its main elements (personal and organizational values), to modern business conditions. The main research methods employed are a questionnaire survey, bibliographic analysis, and content analysis. Barrett’s Cultural Values Assessment methodology is selected and adapted to the conditions of active innovative organizations and enterprises in Russia. Based on the application of Barrett’s Cultural Values Assessment methodology, adapted to the specifics of the given company, an assessment of the existing organizational culture is obtained, inconsistencies between the current and desired organizational culture are identified, and recommendations for changing the organizational culture of the company are formulated. It is concluded that organizational culture is an active resource when managing sustainable development, and is part of organizational innovation. A well-grounded and adequate choice of directions and methods for organizational changes is an important factor in achieving business sustainability. The results of the analysis imply the necessity of changing the existing organizational culture of the given company.
