Title: The Technology Interface and Student Engagement Are Significant Stimuli in Sustainable Student Satisfaction
Authors: Alka Pandita, Ravi Kiran
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15107923
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4376278813

Abstract:
The technology interface and student engagement are important factors that can contribute to sustainable student satisfaction. Technology has become an integral part of the recent teaching–learning setup and it can significantly impact student satisfaction. Additionally, student engagement is vital for sustainable student satisfaction. Engaged students are more likely to take an active role in their education, participate in discussions, and ask questions. When students are engaged, they feel a sense of ownership over their learning experience, which can lead to higher levels of satisfaction. Therefore, educational institutions should strive to provide students with technology that is intuitive and easy to use and create an environment that fosters engagement and collaboration. By doing so, institutions can increase student satisfaction and improve overall academic outcomes. This research study was primarily conducted to understand the potential of the technology interface (TI) and student engagement (SE) in enhancing student satisfaction (SS). The study uses a survey to collect responses from 400 respondents from higher educational institutions (HEIs). PLS-SEM has been used to test the proposed hypothesis. Three dimensions of the technology interface (TI) include cyber infrastructure, quality of e-content, and technology-assisted facilities. It is essential to understand how the technology interface influences student engagement (SE) through three dimensions, viz. new skills development, active involvement, and academic achievements. The student satisfaction scale has an employability perspective, teaching perspective, and learning perspective as subscales. Initially, the study examines the influence of the technology interface on student engagement. The findings support a positive impact on student engagement. The next step was to study the direct effect of the technology interface on student satisfaction. The results lend support to a positive influence. An attempt was also made to investigate the mediation of student engagement between the technology interface and student satisfaction. The findings highlight that with the mediation of student engagement, the influence of the technology interface on student satisfaction is improved. This study is one of the pioneering empirical studies highlighting the importance of the technology interface on the mediation of student engagement in student satisfaction. Technology may be a prerequisite, but it needs to be translated to student satisfaction by using it with student engagement (new skills development, active involvement, and academic achievements). The study has meaningful implications for policymakers at universities to enable them to strategize around practices conducive to the implementation of technology, and for student engagement activities to enhance student satisfaction in higher education institutes (HEIs).
