Title: Sustained microglial activation in the area postrema of collagen-induced arthritis mice
Authors: Takayuki Matsushita, Kazuhiro Otani, Yohsuke Oto, Yukari Takahashi, Daitaro Kurosaka, Fusao Kato
Year: 2021
Venue: Arthritis Research & Therapy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13075-021-02657-x
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3210230790

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Central nervous system (CNS)-mediated symptoms, such as fatigue, depression, and hyperalgesia, are common complications among patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, it remains unclear how the peripheral pathology of RA spreads to the brain. Accumulated evidence showing an association between serum cytokine levels and aberrant CNS function suggests that humoral factors participate in this mechanism. In contrast to the well-known early responses of microglia (CNS-resident immune cells) in the area postrema [AP; a brain region lacking a blood-brain barrier (BBB)] to experimental inflammation, microglial alterations in the AP during chronic inflammation like RA remain unclear. Therefore, to determine whether microglia in the AP can react to persistent autoimmune-arthritis conditions, we analyzed these cells in a mouse model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). METHODS: Microglial number and morphology were analyzed in the AP of CIA and control mice (administered Freund's adjuvant or saline). Immunostaining for ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule-1 was performed at various disease phases: "pre-onset" [post-immunization day (PID) 21], "establishment" (PID 35), and "chronic" (PID 56 and 84). Quantitative analyses of microglial number and morphology were performed, with principal component analysis used to classify microglia. Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) mRNA expression was analyzed by multiple fluorescent in situ hybridization and real-time polymerase chain reaction. Behavioral changes were assessed by sucrose preference test. RESULTS: Microglia in the AP significantly increased in density and exhibited changes in morphology during the establishment and chronic phases, but not the pre-onset phase. Non-subjective clustering classification of cell morphology (CIA, 1,256 cells; saline, 852 cells) showed that the proportion of highly activated microglia increased in the CIA group during establishment and chronic phases. Moreover, the density of IL-1β-positive microglia, a hallmark of functional activation, was increased in the AP. Sucrose preferences in CIA mice negatively correlated with IL-1β expression in brain regions containing the AP. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that microglia in the AP can sustain their activated state during persistent autoimmune arthritis, which suggests that chronic inflammation, such as RA, may affect microglia in brain regions lacking a BBB and have various neural consequences.
