Title: Strengthening the role of corporate social responsibility in the dimensions of sustainable village economic development
Authors: I Gusti Ayu Purnamawati, Gede Adi Yuniarta, Ferry Jie
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e15115
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4362582363

Abstract:
Implementing green growth and digitalization programs as sustainable village economic development dimensions encounter challenges related to human resources, institutional design, and trade-offs between economic growth, environmental sustainability, and corporate social responsibility. This study aims to analyze the role of the green economy and digitalization for sustainable village economic development with corporate social responsibility as a moderating variable. This research is quantitative descriptive research conducted in the province of Bali. Research data using primary sources were collected using a questionnaire with a Likert scale. Respondents in this study were the community and village officials who carried out activities using technical assistance in government activities and agriculture and plantations. The research sample amounted to 98 people using purposive sampling. Data were analyzed using Structural Equation Modeling. The research results explain the importance of maintaining sustainable economic growth in the agricultural and plantation sectors in the Province of Bali with good cropping patterns. Green growth and digitalization significantly impact sustainable growth in the economic and financial sectors. Corporate social responsibility can moderate the influence of green growth and digitalization on sustainable village economic development. A green economy ensures that villages can realize economic growth that can reduce poverty and ensure social inclusion, environmental sustainability, and resource efficiency. The digital village program will increase the knowledge and competence of rural communities to use technology in developing their businesses, welfare, and local rural business capabilities. Mainly to improve production, marketing, reputation, and finances to compete with regional and national businesspeople.
