Title: Effective energy utilization through economic development for sustainable management in smart cities
Authors: Bing Li
Year: 2022
Venue: Energy Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2022.02.303
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4226045950

Abstract:
Innovative cities that use Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) while guaranteeing that they meet current generations’ needs for life quality, operating efficiency, and competitive nature are known as Smart Sustainable Cities (SSCs). Green spaces and eco-friendly practices are integrated into the urban area to reduce pollution levels and CO2 emissions and protect the natural resources within the city. Apps for smart cities are designed to control traffic and respond to emergencies in real-time. Therefore, smart cities may be better equipped to react to challenges than those with a straightforward transaction processing relationship with their residents. Existing high-speed internet and underground wiring in major metro areas are both in need of replacement due to deterioration from decades of use. Although the availability of wireless broadband service is expanding, some parts of the country’s largest cities are still without it. In order to maintain cities in a sustainable fashion, there are several obstacles that must be faced. Congestion, a lack of funding for essential services, a lack of suitable accommodation, deteriorating infrastructure, and increasing air pollution are all common problems in cities. The major challenges such as the best use of urban buildings’ energy generation, storage, consumption, fossil fuel use, disregard for the environment, and limited internet technology (IT) architecture are all contributing factors in the city’s decline addressed in this research. Therefore, this paper proposes the social collaboration of renewable energy resources (SC-RER) technique to overcome the basic challenges described above. With the help of the proposed technique, local renewable energy sources can be used to their full potential. Smart block innovation (SBI) is used to make smart community planning mode. Energy-Efficiency (EE) model is framed to reduce the energy consumed significantly. As a result, it helps increase the method’s efficiency to gain a 95.4% maximum level, suitable for making sustainable smart cities.
