Title: Thriving in the Entrepreneurial Landscape of Sustainability and Intelligent Automation Era
Authors: Narcisa Roxana Moşteanu
Year: 2023
Venue: Green and Low-Carbon Economy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.47852/bonviewglce32021335
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386962770

Abstract:
The contemporary corporate landscape is undergoing a major shift, marked by a dual transformation towards sustainability and intelligent automation. As the world faces complex social and environmental challenges, entrepreneurs find themselves at a crossroads of unprecedented opportunities and daunting challenges. This study addresses the critical point where sustainability intersects with business automation, focusing on the complicated dynamics that entrepreneurs must navigate. The main concern is the need for entrepreneurs to effectively infuse the principles of sustainability and intelligent automation into their businesses. Recognizing the growing demand for environmentally conscious products and services alongside the profound impact of automation, entrepreneurs face the pressing challenge of crafting strategies that holistically embrace these paradigms. Thus, the study aims to discern the multifaceted landscape of entrepreneurial endeavors in this context. Methodologically, a combination of qualitative interviews with experienced entrepreneurs and quantitative surveys from various industries will be used, followed by thematic analysis to highlight general patterns. The study is based on a fusion of sustainable business frameworks and technology adoption models that support the exploration of entrepreneurial resilience in the context of sustainability and automation. The outcomes include an enriched understanding of the complex interplay between these dimensions and the discovery of strategies that fuel entrepreneurial triumph. This study's exploration of the intersection of sustainability, automation and entrepreneurship resonates deeply with the principles of the green economy. By dissecting the challenges and strategies entrepreneurs use to embrace sustainability and automation, the research contributes valuable insights to the ongoing discourse on sustainable business practices within a burgeoning green economy. The findings will assist policy makers by providing useful information to cultivate an environment conducive to sustainable, technology-based entrepreneurship. Received: 8 July 2023 | Revised: 11 September 2023 | Accepted: 16 September 2023 Conflicts of Interest The author declares that she has no conflicts of interest to this work. Data Availability Statement Data available on request from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. Author Contribution Statement Narcisa Roxana Moşteanu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Data curation, Writing - original draft, Writing - review &amp; editing, Visualization, Supervision, Project administration.
