Title: Developing a Sustainable Environment Based on Augmented Reality to Educate Adolescents about the Dangers of Electronic Gaming Addiction
Authors: Ali Hassan Najmi, Waleed Salim Alhalafawy, Marwa Zaki
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15043185
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4319844755

Abstract:
The expansion of the use of electronic games has led to a surge in the rates of gaming addiction among adolescents. Electronic games addiction (EGA) presents, of course, psychological, hygienic, social, educational, and moral dangers. Therefore, it is very important to educate adolescents and enhance their awareness of the dangers of electronic games addiction (DEGA). Given the unique characteristics of augmented reality technology, the present study aims to develop a sustainable environment based on augmented reality (SEBAR) within educational institutions to educate adolescents about the DEGA. The SEBAR in the present study is based on the possibility of using the applications of augmented reality (AR) technology to generate digital objects of some images and barcodes projected on the school walls, classroom doors, school yards, and computer labs, in addition to specially developed missions to educate adolescents on the DEGA. In the present study, the embedded design as one of the mixed research methods was used to examine the effect of AR on adolescents’ awareness of the DEGA. Research treatments were applied to seventy-five high school students in two different schools in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The experimental processing was carried out in a school where it was possible to develop a sustainable environment while the other schools were assigned to the control group. For comparing the experimental group that used the SEBAR and the control group that used the normal environment based on a set of articles and tasks without any link to AR, the quasi-experimental approach was used. In addition, to gain a deep understanding of the effects of AR on the awareness of the DEGA, the phenomenological approach was used. Furthermore, an electronic gaming addiction scale (EGAS) and an awareness test for the DEGA were developed as study instruments. The findings showed an increase in the adolescents’ knowledge and awareness regarding the DEGA in the experimental group that used the SEBAR in comparison with the awareness of their peers in the control group.
