Title: Nanobiosensors and nanoformulations in agriculture: new advances and challenges for sustainable agriculture
Authors: Cristina Miguel‐Rojas, Alejandro Pérez‐de‐Luque
Year: 2023
Venue: Emerging Topics in Life Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1042/etls20230070
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388302588

Abstract:
In the current scenario of climate change, global agricultural systems are facing remarkable challenges in order to increase production, while reducing the negative environmental impact. Nano-enabled technologies have the potential to revolutionise farming practices by increasing the efficiency of inputs and minimising losses, as well as contributing to sustainable agriculture. Two promising applications of nanotechnology in agriculture are nanobiosensors and nanoformulations (NFs). Nanobiosensors can help detect biotic and abiotic stresses in plants before they affect plant production, while NFs can make agrochemicals, more efficient and less polluting. NFs are becoming new-age materials with a wide variety of nanoparticle-based formulations such as fertilisers, herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides. They facilitate the site-targeted controlled delivery of agrochemicals enhancing their efficiency and reducing dosages. Smart farming aims to monitor and detect parameters related to plant health and environmental conditions in order to help sustainable agriculture. Nanobiosensors can provide real-time analytical data, including detection of nutrient levels, metabolites, pesticides, presence of pathogens, soil moisture, and temperature, aiding in precision farming practices, and optimising resource usage. In this review, we summarise recent innovative uses of NFs and nanobiosensors in agriculture that may boost crop protection and production, as well as reducing the negative environmental impact of agricultural activities. However, successful implementation of these smart technologies would require two special considerations: (i) educating farmers about appropriate use of nanotechnology, (ii) conducting field trials to ensure effectiveness under real conditions.
