Title: A review of the industrial use and global sustainability of Cannabis sativa
Authors: Asif Raihan, Tashdid Rahman Bijoy
Year: 2023
Venue: Global Sustainability Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.56556/gssr.v2i4.597
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387267319

Abstract:
The Cannabis plant (Cannabis sativa L.), also known as hemp, is a sustainable and multipurpose plant that may be used for a wide range of purposes, from the fiber in its stalks to the food in its seeds to the oil in its flowers and seeds. Since the Cannabis plant has been recognized to be an outstanding carbon trap and environmentally friendly biofuel that supports all three aspects of sustainability—the economy, the environment, and society—it may provide a solution to the climate change dilemma. The cultivation of the Cannabis plant has been practiced as a dietary staple in numerous places across the globe for an extended period. However, its production has been prohibited in several countries mostly owing to its relationship with illicit drug consumption. The illegality of the plant has impeded research efforts for an extended period of time on a global scale. As a result, people's ability to assess the whole range of beneficial effects and dangers shrank. However, the global trend toward Cannabis legalization and decriminalization has accelerated in recent years. This has stimulated more investigation into the botanical, ecological, and practical aspects of the plant. This study reviewed the available literature to understand more about the Cannabis plant's global sustainability. The results demonstrated the potential of Cannabis plants to affect product sustainability and the use of hemp as a renewable raw material. Furthermore, this review outlines the connections between the Cannabis plant and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. This research fills a gap in our understanding of the Cannabis plant's sustainability as a highly promising multi-purpose crop for the future.
