Title: Emerging Trends in Smart and Sustainable Nano-Biosensing: The Role of Green Nanomaterials
Authors: Shima Jafarzadeh, Nazila Oladzadabbasabadi, Mohammed Ali Dheyab, Maryam Azizi Lalabadi, Samira Sheibani, Mehran Ghasemlou, Yasaman Esmaeili, Colin J. Barrow, Minoo Naebe, Wendy Timms
Year: 2024
Venue: Industrial Crops and Products
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indcrop.2024.120108
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4404732910

Abstract:
Rapid population growth has increased pressure on resources, driving the need for eco-friendly technologies to ensure sustainable energy solutions. Green nanotechnology, a rapidly evolving subset of nanotechnology, requires the use of sustainable nanomaterials and has gained attention for its wide-ranging potential impact in energy, medicine environmental protection, and materials science. The development of smart, sustainable nano-biosensing technologies using bio-based materials has transformed analytical science and medicine. This review examines recent breakthroughs in biological advances and green nanoparticle (NP) fabrication, focusing on plant-derived and bio-based nanomaterials. Their biocompatibility, abundance, and carbonaceous nature make them ideal for cost-effective, eco-friendly solutions with broad industrial application. This article provides a comprehensive overview of the current advancements in the field, highlighting the potential of biomass-derived nanostructures in addressing global challenges in healthcare, medicine, agriculture, and environmental sustainability. This review also addresses the toxicology and safety aspects of green nanomaterials. By promoting the convergence of nano-bioengineering and sustainable practices, this work aims to inspire further research and innovation in the development of next-generation biosensing technologies. • This review examines recent advancements in sustainable, eco-friendly methods for nanomaterials production. • The review explores critical overview of green nanomaterials in the development of smart nano-biosensors. • The review addresses the critical toxicology and safety aspects of nanomaterials. • This review examines integration of nano-bioengineering and sustainable practices for early-stage disease detection and environmental monitoring.
