Title: Mechanosynthesized electroactive materials for sustainable energy and environmental applications: A critical review
Authors: Zhijie Chen, Gao‐Feng Han, Asif Mahmood, Jingwei Hou, Wei Wei, Ho Kyong Shon, Guoxiu Wang, T. David Waite, Jong‐Beom Baek, Bing‐Jie Ni
Year: 2024
Venue: Progress in Materials Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmatsci.2024.101299
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394823126

Abstract:
Electrochemistry-driven techniques for advanced energy storage/conversion and environmental protection play a crucial role in achieving sustainable development goals. As an indispensable component in diverse electrochemical systems, electroactive materials gain soaring interest in terms of rational design and sustainable synthesis. Notably, mechanochemistry-based green and powerful synthesis has been widely employed to fabricate diverse electroactive materials, given their scalability and tunability. Recently, mechanochemically synthesized electroactive materials have been widely applied in various environmental and energy fields, leading to significant progress. However, a systematic analysis of these advancements is still missing. Herein, we comprehensively discuss recent achievements in mechanosynthesized electroactive materials for sustainable energy and environmental applications. The development of mechanochemical synthesis is introduced, along with different types of mechanosynthesized electroactive materials. Subsequently, the review delves into the applications of these materials in advanced energy conversion/storage systems and environmental remediation. The rational design of electroactive materials and their structure-performance correlation are illustrated by discussing the effects of the mechanochemical process on the internal and external properties of materials and their electrochemical performance. Lastly, key perspectives in this field are discussed, including mechanochemical process monitoring, field-assisted mechanochemical synthesis, material performance optimization, practical applications, and mechanochemistry-driven fuels/chemicals synthesis. By illustrating current advances and perspectives related to the development of mechanosynthesized electroactive materials, this review aims to shed some light on upcoming research on green mechanochemical synthesis-driven energy and environmental sustainability.
