Title: Is Sustainability Reporting Promoting a Circular Economy? Analysis of Companies’ Sustainability Reports in the Agri-Food Sector in the Scope of Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and EU Taxonomy Regulation
Authors: Christof Falkenberg, Carina Schneeberger, Siegfried Pöchträger
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15097498
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382335445

Abstract:
Circular economy has the potential to contribute significantly to sustainable development. Despite its popularity, implementation in Europe is still low. Through more stringent sustainability reporting, the circular economy should be increasingly implemented by companies, which is currently pursued by the EU through two new legal acts. Therefore, we need a more integrated understanding of existing practices of corporate sustainability reporting to identify weak points and possibilities for further improvement. This article aims to (i) investigate whether companies in the agri-food sector have reported on the circular economy so far, (ii) to what extent future legal obligations are already being met, and (iii) if the two new EU legal acts hold significance for the promotion of circular economy through corporate reporting. To assess the current reporting practices, a qualitative content analysis and a mapping approach of 20 selected sustainability reports from key players in the agri-food sector have been conducted. Additionally, seven semi-structured expert interviews were carried out to review the future role of the legal acts. Results show that reporting in the agri-food sector on circular economy has increased considerably as of 2016, but it is still lacking in terms of the two new legal acts. Although the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can be seen as a good basis for reporting, there is a large number of new obligations, which means that companies should start preparing at an early stage. This is especially true for those agri-food companies that have not yet been subjected to any reporting obligations. Experts have agreed with this view, considering the legal acts as an important vehicle for promoting the concept. However, they also recognize the weaknesses, such as the existing scope for interpretation, which still need to be addressed before the final publication of the standard and the technical criteria. Future research should analyze the final commitments of the reports (including for small and medium-sized companies), compare them with established reporting standards, seek expert opinions on them, and quantitatively examine sustainability reports in this and other industries.
