Title: Assessing sustainability of Chiang Mai urban development
Authors: Wiwat Pongruengkiat, Korrakot Yaibuathet Tippayawong, Pruk Aggarangsi, Preda Pichayapan, Tossapon Katongtung, Nakorn Tippayawong
Year: 2023
Venue: Discover Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s43621-023-00174-2
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389551942

Abstract:
Abstract Sustainable urban development is an increasingly important concept as cities around the world continue to grow and face challenges related to urbanization, including environmental degradation, social inequality, and economic instability. Chiang Mai is a rapidly growing city in Thailand that steers towards sustainability. In this work, we examine the state of sustainable urban development in Chiang Mai by analyzing various indicators, including transportation, waste management, air quality, and energy consumption. A multi-dimensional framework was used to assess the sustainability of Chiang Mai. Our analysis suggests that while Chiang Mai has made progress in some areas of sustainable urban development, such as promoting green transportation and waste reduction and reduction consumption, there are still many challenges to be addressed, particularly in air pollution, water management, transportation and energy consumption. We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings for policy makers, urban planners, and other stakeholders interested in promoting sustainable urban development. This study assesses Chiang Mai’s sustainability using a comprehensive set of 35 indicators. It was found that Chiang Mai has potential for sustainable development, but some indicators require improvement. The study presents guidelines for prioritizing sustainable development, improving air and water quality, promoting sustainable tourism, enhancing waste management, transportation management and energy consumption. This research provides alternative framework for evaluating cities and presents a valuable contribution to the field of sustainable urban development.
