Title: Metagenomics: A Tool for Exploring Key Microbiome With the Potentials for Improving Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Blessing Chidinma Nwachukwu, Olubukola Oluranti Babalola
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fsufs.2022.886987
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4283018859

Abstract:
Microorganisms are immense in nature and exist in every imaginable ecological niche, performing a wide range of metabolic processes. Unfortunately, using traditional microbiological methods, most microorganisms remain unculturable. The emergence of metagenomics has resolved the challenge of capturing the entire microbial community in an environmental sample by enabling the analysis of whole genomes without requiring culturing. Metagenomics as a non-culture approach encompasses a greater amount of genetic information than traditional approaches. The plant root-associated microbial community is essential for plant growth and development, hence the interactions between microorganisms, soil, and plants is essential to understand and improve crop yields in rural and urban agriculture. Although some of these microorganisms are currently unculturable in the laboratory, metagenomic techniques may nevertheless be used to identify the microorganisms and their functional traits. A detailed understanding of these organisms and their interactions should facilitate an improvement of plant growth and sustainable crop production in soil and soilless agriculture. Therefore, the objective of this review is to provide insights into metagenomic techniques to study plant root-associated microbiota and microbial ecology. In addition, the different DNA-based techniques and their role in elaborating plant microbiomes are discussed. As an understanding of these microorganisms and their biotechnological potentials are unlocked through metagenomics, they can be used to develop new, useful and unique bio-fertilizers and bio-pesticides that are not harmful to the environment.
