Title: Sustainable characterization of brake pads using raw/silane‐treated Mimosa pudica fibers for automobile applications
Authors: Vijay Raghunathan, Sathyamoorthy Gnanasekaran, Vinod Ayyappan, D. Lenin Singaravelu, Sanjay Mavinkere Rangappa, Suchart Sienghcin
Year: 2024
Venue: Polymer Composites
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/pc.28467
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4395003025

Abstract:
Abstract The demand for bio‐fiber composites has increased globally due to the environmental impact of non‐sustainable materials. In this context, Natural fibers are becoming increasingly popular in various applications due to their sustainability. This study explores silane‐treated Mimosa pudica (MP) fibers obtained from the relevant plant that were treated with silane and utilized to strengthen composites used in brake friction development. Five different formulations for brake friction composites were developed using silane‐treated and untreated MP fibers combined with inert filler synthetic barites and maintaining other ingredients in constant amounts. The brake pads were then evaluated for physical, chemical, mechanical, and thermal properties, and their tribological performance was assessed using the chase test, following SAE J661‐2021. The test results revealed that the silane‐treated fibers had a higher cellulose content of 57.2%, while the untreated fibers had a cellulose content of 48.7%. The Rockwell hardness‐K scale value was higher for brake pads made with 5 wt% silane‐treated fibers, with a value of 95. The wear loss was lower for brake pads made with 10 wt% silane‐treated MP fibers‐based brake pads than other composites. Scanning Electron Microscope analyzed the worn surface features of the brake pads used in the Chase test. Highlights Mimosa pudica fibers were utilized as reinforcement in brake pads Silane‐treated Mimosa pudica fibers showed higher cellulose content and improved thermal stability Silane‐treated Mimosa pudica fibers‐based brake pads showed optimal μ and lower wear rate.
