Title: Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Rashmi Mathur
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal for Research in Applied Science and Engineering Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.22214/ijraset.2023.54360
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382466571

Abstract:
Abstract: Humans have been inventing machines to accomplish arduous and time-consuming tasks. Technology has advanced to enable the development of machines that perceive and acquire data, understand language, retain it as knowledge, deduce information, reason, and solve problems. The widespread deployment of artificial intelligence is a milestone in the history of the transformative aspects of modern technology. Agriculture is a vital sector that supports economic growth and human subsistence and automation in this sector is a global concern. A vast majority of people in India's agrarian economy depend on agriculture for their livelihood, so it is crucial to promote sustainable agricultural practices. Due to population growth, conventional farming techniques can no longer keep up with food demand. Various novel automation technologies are being established to meet these needs and provide employability in this field. Ensuring food security despite climate change and population growth is a challenge for Artificial Intelligence. Recent environmental changes and climate catastrophes have affected agricultural production, and it is crucial to leverage technology to mitigate these impacts. Using technology tools like AI, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) or drones, and sensors is an important step towards sustainable agriculture. These biosensor tools can help farmers monitor soil moisture levels, soil alkalinity, pesticide and toxicity levels, and identify diseases and pests that affect crop health. Biosensors can also help detect disease-causing organisms, enabling farmers to take preventive measures to ensure increased crop productivity. The paper aims to review technological innovations and suggest steps to integrate technology for the benefit of society through sustainable agricultural practices.
