Title: Digitalization for transformative urbanization, climate change adaptation, and sustainable farming in Africa: trend, opportunities, and challenges
Authors: Abdul‐Lateef Balogun, Naheem Adebisi, Ismaila Rimi Abubakar, Umar Lawal Dano, Abdulwaheed Tella
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Integrative Environmental Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/1943815x.2022.2033791
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4226494194

Abstract:
In sub-Saharan Africa, mass rural-urban migration negatively affectthe agriculture sector that accounts for about 23% of the GDP and employs over 60% of the population. Together with a rapidly changing climate, unplanned urbanization poses serious threats to Africa’s agriculture sector with the risk of chronic food shortages in the future. To stem this tide, it is imperative to systematically assess the unplanned urbanization trend from a socio-economic perspective and distill the broader implication for sustainable urban farming within the context of climate change in the region. The potentials of digitalization as a tool for transformative adaptation to climate change and enabler of sustainable development in different domains, including agriculture, are beginning to emerge. However, most studies are based on data from Asia, Europe, North America, and Oceania. There is minimal documentation of current applications and prospects of digitalization for sustainable agricultural practices in Africa, particularly in an increasingly urbanized era. Thus, this study addresses this need by evaluating the potentials of digitalization to enable sustainable farming in the face of unprecedented climate change constraints in Africa and minimize the negative impacts of urbanization on agriculture. Through a desk research approach, the present study explores the challenges to digital farming in Africa despite its successful implementation in the global North. Drawing lessons from successful case-studies worldwide, we suggest possible pathways to overcome the challenges and implement localized digitalization approaches to strengthen preventive action against climate risks, enhance disaster preparedness, and aid effective planning and management of agriculture practices. Integrating agriculture into the city via digital urban farming is crucial for long-term food security and creating appealing clean-tech jobs for a large number of new immigrants, thereby supporting African cities’ resilience and sustainable development.
