Title: Sustainability reporting, universities and global reporting initiative applicability: a still open issue
Authors: Sara Moggi
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability Accounting Management and Policy Journal
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/sampj-05-2022-0257
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4376881030

Abstract:
Purpose The porpose of this study is to critically consider the use of global reporting initiative (GRI) guidelines in universities’ sustainability reports.. In light of the recent literature and Habermas’s thinking, the study advances the research field by considering the process of internal colonisation from steering institutions and makes suggestions regarding the future role of GRI in the higher education (HE) context. Design/methodology/approach This study presents a systematic literature review and content analysis for enhancing the critical reading of GRI applications in HE studies. The results are analysed in light of Habermas’s thinking, considering the GRI as a steering institution and its guidelines as steering mechanisms. Findings This study updates the literature review on sustainability reporting (SR) at universities and underlines the general trend in the employment of the GRI in this context. The results highlight the need to adapt the GRI to enhance its applicability in the HE context by considering additional dimensions such as research, teaching and operations. In doing so, the framework loses effectiveness and weakens the role of the GRI as a steering institution. Practical implications The results suggest that the GRI guidelines should be reframed to enhance comparability among reports and increase its wider employment at universities. Social implications Universities need to be guided in their accountability process towards SR by dedicated frameworks. This study suggests the potentially pivotal role that the GRI could play in providing dedicated tools for HE to steer and enhance the development of SRs at universities. Originality/value This study presents an updated review of studies on SR at universities and suggests possible paths for the future of the GRI framework applicability to universities’ SR.
