Title: Benefits and challenges of food processing in the context of food systems, value chains and sustainable development goals
Authors: Martin Michel, Alison L. Eldridge, Christoph Hartmann, Petra Klassen, John Ingram, Gert W. Meijer
Year: 2024
Venue: Trends in Food Science & Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104703
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402334324

Abstract:
Background: Food systems are complex networks of supply and demand value chains that have profound effects on human health, environmental sustainability, and economic development. Concerns about the social, environmental, and economic sustainability of these systems have become increasingly acute due to challenges such as population growth coupled with an emerging middle class, urbanization, resource competition, geopolitical tensions, and climate change. The United Nations has set Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to address the interplay between social, economic, and environmental factors but the specific steps needed to transition from the current state towards the targets are less clear. Scope and approach: This review aims to explore the role of value chains, specifically the value addition brought by food processing, in transforming food systems outcomes towards achieving SDGs. Both benefits and challenges associated with food processing were assessed in producing safe, nutritious, and affordable food while optimizing resource use. Key findings and conclusions: The review emphasizes the importance of food processing for food safety and supply, its impact on the nutritional value of foods, and it showcases examples of converging nutritional and environmental goals. It highlights the potential of digital tools and systemic perspectives in accelerating the required transformations within food systems. These require efficient collaborations to effectively address the trade-offs that arise when pursuing multiple transformation goals. Accurate, reliable and evidence-based information should be shared among stakeholders and be used for consumer information to empower their informed decisions about the safety, quality, ethical, and sustainability aspects of the food they consume.
