Title: Implementation of a TeamWork-HBIM for the Management and Sustainability of Architectural Heritage
Authors: Juan E. Nieto-Julián, Marco Lenin Lara Calderón, Juan Moyano
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13042161
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3131071602

Abstract:
The benefits of Building Information Modelling (BIM) accrue from the needs of the interoperability of applied technologies. This scope is strongly related to heritage buildings. Protection plans encompassing phases of heritage conservation, interpretation, intervention and dissemination could lead to a sustainable model through a TeamWork-HBIM project. This work develops a step by step semantically enriched 3D model, from accurate data acquisition to the creation of a container of artistic assets. TeamWork-HBIM acts as a database for movable assets, i.e., parametric objects (GDL) with graphical and semantic information, which are valid for recording, inventory and cataloguing processes. Thus, heritage properties were created and used to create recording and inventory sheets related to movable assets. Consequently, a parametric object was edited in the HBIM project, so a new category called “Heritage Furniture” was available. Data from the monitoring of the artistic asset were included in that category. In addition, the specialist technicians from the TeamWork-HBIM team catalogued a dataset related to artistic, historical and conservation properties. Another advantage of the system was the reliability of the structure of the HBIM project, which was based on the actual geometry of the building provided by the point clouds. The information was valid for both modelling works and specialists in virtual monitoring. Moreover, the reliability of metadata was collected in a common data environment (CDE), which was available for everyone. As a result, the Teamwork-HBIM-CDE project meets the needs of private institutions, such as the Foundation of the Church of the Company of Jesus in Quito, related to the sustainability of the historic site. This sustainability is shown by the implementation of a methodology that strengthens the interdisciplinary information flow by including all disciplines of historical heritage.
