Title: Accomplishing Sustainability in Manufacturing System for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) through Lean Implementation
Authors: Karishma M. Qureshi, Bhavesh G. Mewada, Saleh Alghamdi, Naif Almakayeel, M.N. Qureshi, Mohamed Mansour
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159732
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4295536208

Abstract:
Business enterprises such as small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) play a significant role in economic development but struggle for sustainability. A business enterprise such as a manufacturing unit tries many technological innovations and strategic initiatives to accomplish sustainability in the manufacturing system. Lean manufacturing implementation is one such initiative that helps SMEs manufacture value-added products with increased profitability and waste minimization. However, lean implementation in SMEs is challenging. Hence, it is essential to follow a systematic framework and control the critical success factors (CSFs) in attempting lean implementation. The purpose of this research is to find, evaluate, and rank the CSFs of lean implementation of SMEs so that they may be controlled to accomplish successful lean implementation. The CSFs of lean implementation found by an in-depth assessment of the literature are modeled using the interpretative structural modeling (ISM) approach. MICMAC analysis is also used in classifying and understanding the significance of each lean implementation CSF. ISM and MICMAC provide the relationship modeling to reveal the inter-relationships of each lean implementation CSF. Subsequently, the ISM model is validated using the Delphi technique. The interpretative ranking process (IRP) has been applied to rank the CSFs of lean implementations. The results show that sustainability in a manufacturing system, financial capability, and employee involvement hold significant importance in lean implementations in manufacturing SMEs. Practicing managers may benefit from revisiting their lean implementation plans and respective aligned strategies. They will also be in a position to identify and focus on the scarce resources required for the subsequent lean implementations.
