Title: Environmental Sustainability Impacts of Solid Waste Management Practices in the Global South
Authors: Ismaila Rimi Abubakar, Khandoker M. Maniruzzaman, Umar Lawal Dano, Faez S. Alshihri, Maher S. Alshammari, Sayed M.S. Ahmed, Wadee Ahmed Ghanem Al-Gehlani, Tareq I. Alrawaf
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph191912717
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4303696390

Abstract:
Solid waste management (SWM) is one of the key responsibilities of city administrators and one of the effective proxies for good governance. Effective SWM mitigates adverse health and environmental impacts, conserves resources, and improves the livability of cities. However, unsustainable SWM practices, exacerbated by rapid urbanization and financial and institutional limitations, negatively impact public health and environmental sustainability. This review article assesses the human and environmental health impacts of SWM practices in the Global South cities that are the future of global urbanization. The study employs desktop research methodology based on in-depth analysis of secondary data and literature, including official documents and published articles. It finds that the commonplace SWM practices include mixing household and commercial garbage with hazardous waste during storage and handling. While waste storage is largely in old or poorly managed facilities such as storage containers, the transportation system is often deficient and informal. The disposal methods are predominantly via uncontrolled dumping, open-air incinerators, and landfills. The negative impacts of such practices include air and water pollution, land degradation, emissions of methane and hazardous leachate, and climate change. These impacts impose significant environmental and public health costs on residents with marginalized social groups mostly affected. The paper concludes with recommendations for mitigating the public and environmental health risks associated with the existing SWM practices in the Global South.
