Title: Recent advances in nitrogen and nano-nitrogen fertilizers for sustainable crop production: a mini-review
Authors: Krishan K. Verma, Xiu‐Peng Song, Hewan Demissie Degu, Dao-Jun Guo, Abhishek Joshi, Hairong Huang, Lin Xu, Munna Singh, Dongliang Huang, Vishnu D. Rajput, Yang‐Rui Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Chemical and Biological Technologies in Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40538-023-00488-3
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387568919

Abstract:
Abstract To meet the global food demand while maintaining the minimum possible negative impacts on the soil, air, and water, sustainable and precise agricultural practices are essential. The efficient use of engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) can replace conventional fertilizers and pesticides, subsequently minimizing the environmental impact of agricultural approaches. Slow-release or controlled-release nitrogenous fertilizers may enhance crop productivity while alleviating agro-environmental constraints. Nitrogen is the essential element which limits worldwide agricultural production. Despite numerous efforts, the N-use efficiency (NUE) in agriculture remains around 50%. The ongoing investigation of novel approaches has resulted in the synthesis of innovative nanomaterials (NMs), providing a potent mechanism for the development of unique element characteristics. The most promising engineered materials being explored, whether for soil or foliar applications, is nanofertilizers. Although not much is known about the usage of NFs, significant results have been observed in various plant species. Granular fertilizers are commonly applied to the soil for the nitrogen requirement of plants. These fertilizers may cause more losses due to the surface runoff or leaching with ammonia volatilization and N oxides (N 2 O, NO, NOx) emissions. n-NFs are expected to improve NUE by increasing the efficiency of N delivery to plants and minimizing N losses to the environment. A chance to use n-NFs in plants may arise in unique conditions with increasing economic and environmental limitations. This article highlights the possible application of n-NFs as a novel strategy to ensure NUE with the reduction in N losses to the environment, including addressing its potential for sustainable agriculture. Graphical Abstract
