Title: Ammonia as a sustainable fuel: Review and novel strategies
Authors: Qiang Cheng, Muhammad Saad Akram, Ossi Kaario, Zeeshan Ahmad, Martti Larmi
Year: 2024
Venue: Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2024.114995
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403439021

Abstract:
Ammonia is increasingly recognized as a viable alternative fuel that could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions without requiring major modifications to existing engine technologies. However, its high auto-ignition temperature, slow flame speed, and narrow flammability range present significant barriers, particularly under high-speed combustion conditions. This review explores the potential of ammonia as a sustainable fuel for internal combustion engines, focusing on its advantages and challenge. The review draws on a wide range of studies, from NH 3 production, application, to the combustion mechanisms, that explore various strategies for enhancing NH₃ combustion in both spark ignition and compression ignition engines. Fundamentals and key approaches discussed include using hydrogen and hydrocarbon fuels as combustion promoters, which have been shown to improve ignition and flame propagation. Literature on fuel injection strategies, such as port fuel injection, direct injection, and dual-fuel injection, are examined to highlight their influence on NH₃-air mixing and combustion efficiency. Furthermore, the review delves into advanced ignition technologies, such as low-temperature plasma ignition, turbulent jet ignition, and laser ignition, which are explored for the potential to overcome the ignition difficulties associated with NH₃. After a comprehensive analysis based on the literature, the intelligent liquid-gas twin-fluid co-injection system (iTFI) emerges as a promising approach, offering improved combustion stability and efficiency through better fuel-air mixture preparation. By synthesizing the existing research, this review outlines the progress made in NH₃ combustion and identifies areas where further study is needed to fully realize its potential as a sustainable fuel. • A comprehensively review of feasibility of using NH3 as an energy carrier in power propulsion systems. • Detailed chemical and physical properties of NH3 as a fuel in combustion. • Development and progress in NH3 powered SI and CI engines. • Multiple strategies for the application of NH3 in ICEs.
