Title: Evaluating the D&amp;M IS Success Model in the Context of Accounting Information System and Sustainable Decision Making
Authors: Abdalwali Lutfi, Manaf Al‐Okaily, Adi Alsyouf, Mahmaod Alrawad
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14138120
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4283817173

Abstract:
The Accounting Information System (AIS) is generally employed for the automation of operational processes and the enhancement of company efficiencies, but more recently, AIS developments have had a great effect on the process of sustainable decision-making among organizations. However, previous research on the AIS and its capabilities attributed its success to critical success factors. Therefore, in the current work, De Lone and Mc Lean’s Information System (D&amp;M IS) Success Model is evaluated in terms of AIS in Jordanian organizations. The current study primarily aimed to determine the influence of system quality, service quality, information quality, system use and user satisfaction on AIS use, which is argued to eventually enhance the quality and sustainability of decision-making. The study employed a quantitative approach using a self-administered questionnaire for data collection involving 101 decision-makers who are familiar with AIS usage. Following the collection of data, it was validated using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM)—PLS. Based on the obtained results, system quality and information quality significant affected system use, but service quality did not. In turn, AIS was found to have a significant effect on user satisfaction. Furthermore, system use and user satisfaction had positive effects on AIS, which eventually affected the sustainability of decision-making, representing the net AIS benefits. The study contributes to existing IS literature, particularly in the field of determining the factors that influence the AIS net benefits, with the proposed model validated in Jordanian organizations using AIS. The study can be used as a guide to shed light on the importance of AIS and it also provides implications, limitations and opportunities for future studies.
