Title: The sustainability opportunity study (SOS) – diagnosing by operationalising and sensemaking of sustainability using Total Quality Management
Authors: Raine Isaksson, Swaminathan Ramanathan, Max Rosvall
Year: 2022
Venue: The TQM Journal
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/tqm-01-2022-0038
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4297973199

Abstract:
Purpose A key issue to manage sustainability is to be able to operationalise it. Relevant indicators require an appropriate definition of sustainability and sustainable development for the studied organisation. A common problem is inadequate understanding of what sustainability is from an organisational perspective. The purpose of this paper is to propose how to understand, define and measure diagnosing of sustainability from an outside-in perspective. Design/methodology/approach The building, health care, education and tourism value chains are studied. Based on interpreted stakeholder sustainability needs the stages of understanding, defining and measuring of diagnosing are reviewed, and interpretations proposed. This is with focus on identifying the vital few sustainability impacts in the studied value chains. Findings The resulting definitions and proposed performance indicators for the chosen areas indicate that the approach works resulting in proposed definitions and indicators for sustainability and sustainable development based on stakeholders need focus. Having clear definitions and performance indicators will support working effectively with sustainable development. Research limitations/implications The resulting definitions and proposed performance indicators for the chosen areas indicate that the approach works. Further, proposed definitions and indicators for sustainability and sustainable development based on stakeholder needs focus is useful. Having clear definitions and performance indicators will help an organisation engage with sustainability and be sustainable within an organisational context. Practical implications The proposed approach enables using quality management for sustainable development. Social implications Social sustainability is viewed from a poverty and affordability perspective. Originality/value Results indicate that there is a value in using an outside-in approach with focus on stakeholder needs in connection with a process-based approach. The approach is in contrast with the customary way of defining sustainability which mostly is based on an inside-out approach identifying several indicators and then adding these to a measure of sustainability.
