Title: Injectable hydrogel with selenium nanoparticles delivery for sustained glutathione peroxidase activation and enhanced osteoarthritis therapeutics
Authors: Wenhui Hu, Xuan Yao, Yuheng Li, Jian‐Mei Li, Jing Zhang, Zhi Zou, Fei Kang, Shiwu Dong
Year: 2023
Venue: Materials Today Bio
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtbio.2023.100864
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388591173

Abstract:
Reactive oxygen burst in articular chondrocytes is a major contributor to osteoarthritis progression. Although selenium is indispensable role in the antioxidant process, the narrow therapeutic window, delicate toxicity margins, and lack of an efficient delivery system have hindered its translation to clinical applications. Herein, transcriptomic and biochemical analyses revealed that osteoarthritis was associated with selenium metabolic abnormality. A novel injectable hydrogel to deliver selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) was proposed to intervene selenoprotein expression for osteoarthritis treatment. The hydrogels based on oxidized hyaluronic acid (OHA) cross-linked with hyaluronic acid-adipic acid dihydrazide (HA-ADH) was formulated to load SeNPs through a Schiff base reaction. The hydrogels were further incorporated with SeNPs, which exhibited minimal toxicity, mechanical properties, self-healing capability, and sustained drug release. Encapsulated with SeNPs, the hydrogels facilitated cartilage repair through synergetic effects of scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) and depressing apoptosis. Mechanistically, the hydrogel restored redox homeostasis by targeting glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPX1). Therapeutic outcomes of the SeNPs-laden hydrogel were demonstrated in an osteoarthritis rat model created by destabilization of the medial meniscus, including cartilage protection, subchondral bone sclerosis improvement, inflammation attenuation, and pain relief were demonstrated. These results highlight therapeutic potential of OHA/HA-ADH@SeNPs hydrogels, providing fundamental insights into remedying selenium imbalance for osteoarthritis biomaterial development.
