Title: Transforming E-Waste into Opportunities: Driving Organizational Actions to Achieve Sustainable Development Goals
Authors: Rafaela Garbelini Anuardo, Maximilian Espuny, Ana Carolina Ferreira Costa, Ana Lígia Gil Espuny, Yiğit Kazançoğlu, Jayakrishna Kandsamy, Otávio José de Oliveira
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151914150
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387021395

Abstract:
With technological advancements, there has been a significant increase in the generation of electronic waste (e-waste), leading to severe environmental consequences. Inadequate e-waste management poses obstacles to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and results in detrimental effects such as pollution, health risks, and resource depletion. Recycling and reusing are vital due to the presence of toxic and valuable elements in e-waste. However, several barriers impede effective management, including limited collection points, insufficient awareness, and inadequate policies. For this reason, this paper aims to propose drivers for developing and improving organizational actions that enhance e-waste management, enabling companies to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. Content analysis was employed as the research method to identify booster elements and systematize e-waste management drivers. Thirty-six booster elements related to SDGs 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, and 17 were identified based on 30 relevant scientific articles from Scopus and 16 sustainability reports from well-ranked companies on the New York Stock Exchange. The systematized drivers encompass recycling and treatment techniques, sustainable manufacturing and consumption, e-waste management technologies, and cooperation networks. The scientific contribution of this work lies in incorporating empirical elements into the literature and enriching the theory of sustainable practices in the electronic equipment industry. In an applied manner, this article contributes to managers who can use the proposed drivers to improve the management of e-waste, thus reducing costs and enhancing the socio-environmental performance of their companies.
