Title: Applying the Integrated Sustainability Framework to explore the long-term sustainability of nutrition education programmes in schools: a systematic review
Authors: Leila Fathi, Jacqueline L. Walker, Clare Dix, Jessica Cartwright, Suné Joubert, Kerri Amelia Carmichael, Yu-Shan Huang, Robyn Littlewood, Helen Truby
Year: 2023
Venue: Public Health Nutrition
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/s1368980023001647
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385620578

Abstract:
OBJECTIVE: This review aimed to identify and synthesise the enablers and barriers that influence the long-term (≥ 2 years) sustainment of school-based nutrition programmes. DESIGN: Four databases (PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase and Scopus) were searched to identify studies reporting on the international literature relating to food and nutrition programmes aimed at school-age (5-14 years) children that had been running for ≥ 2 years (combined intervention and follow-up period). Eligible studies were analysed using the Integrated Sustainability Framework (ISF), which involved deductive coding of programme enablers and barriers. A quality assessment was completed, using the Mixed-Methods Appraisal Tool and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. SETTING: International school-based nutrition programmes. SUBJECTS: Individuals involved with the implementation of school-based nutrition programmes. RESULTS: From the 7366 articles identified, thirteen studies (seven qualitative, five mixed methods and one quantitative descriptive) were included, from which the enablers and barriers of eleven different nutrition-related programmes were analysed. Thirty-four factors across the five domains of the ISF were identified that influenced the sustained implementation of programmes. The most common barrier was a lack of organisational readiness and resources, whereas the most common enabler was having adequate external partnerships and a supportive environment. CONCLUSIONS: These findings have application during the initiation and implementation phases of school-based nutrition programmes. Paying attention to the 'outer contextual factors' of the ISF including the establishment and maintenance of robust relationships across whole of government systems, local institutions and funding bodies are crucial for programme sustainment.
