Title: Life Cycle Assessment of the Sustainability of Alkali-Activated Binders
Authors: Mohammad Alhassan, Ayah A. Alkhawaldeh, Nour Betoush, Mohammad A. Alkhawaldeh, Ghasan Fahim Huseien, Layla Amaireh, Ahmad G. Elrefae
Year: 2023
Venue: Biomimetics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/biomimetics8010058
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4318830430

Abstract:
Limiting the consumption of nonrenewable resources and minimizing waste production and associated gas emissions are the main priority of the construction sector to achieve a sustainable future. This study investigates the sustainability performance of newly developed binders known as alkali-activated binders (AABs). These AABs work satisfactorily in creating and enhancing the concept of greenhouse construction in accordance with sustainability standards. These novel binders are founded on the notion of utilizing ashes from mining and quarrying wastes as raw materials for hazardous and radioactive waste treatment. The life cycle assessment, which depicts material life from the extraction of raw materials through the destruction stage of the structure, is one of the most essential sustainability factors. A recent use for AAB has been created, such as the use of hybrid cement, which is made by combining AAB with ordinary Portland cement (OPC). These binders are a successful answer to a green building alternative if the techniques used to make them do not have an unacceptable negative impact on the environment, human health, or resource depletion. The Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) software was employed for choosing the optimal materials' alternative depending on the available criteria. The results revealed that AAB concrete provided a more ecologically friendly alternative than OPC concrete, higher strength for comparable water/binder ratio, and better performance in terms of embodied energy, resistance to freeze-thaw cycles, high temperature resistance, and mass loss due to acid attack and abrasion.
