Title: Artificial Intelligence‐Based Sustainable Development of Smart Heritage Tourism
Authors: Dan Li, Du Pengju, Haizhen He
Year: 2022
Venue: Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/5441170
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281622475

Abstract:
World heritage is a kind of affirmation and high honor given by the international community to the important civilization, historical relics, or natural landscape of a country and nation. This paper studies and analyzes the sustainable development of heritage tourism boosted by smart tourism based on big data artificial intelligence. This paper first analyzes big data and then introduces the concept of smart tourism. Smart tourism is a new future‐oriented tourism form that serves the public, enterprises, and governments. It uses the Internet of Things, cloud computing, next‐generation communication network, high‐performance information processing, intelligent data mining, and other technologies in tourism experience, industrial development, administrative management, and other applications, so that tourism physical resources and information resources have been highly systematically integrated and deeply developed and activated. And then, we analyze and discuss artificial intelligence algorithms. Artificial intelligence is a new technological science that is researched and developed on the basis of computer science as a simulation and extension of human intelligence activities. Finally, a comprehensive analysis is made on the tourism ecological footprint of natural heritage sites and the carrying capacity of tourism ecology in natural heritage sites. The experimental results of this paper show that the tourism development of this natural heritage site is in a sustainable state. The reasons are as follows: First, the average tourist ecological footprint of the place is 0.009466 hm 2 , the average tourism ecological carrying capacity is 0.032861 hm 2 , and there is an average ecological surplus of 0.02339 hm 2 ; secondly, the average tourist natural footprint is 18285.93 hm 2 , the average tourism environmental carrying capacity is 40421.97 hm 2 , and the average ecological surplus is 22136.04 hm 2 . To sum up, it shows that its tourism development is in a state of sustainable development.
