Title: Contextual factors and mechanisms that influence sustainability: a realist evaluation of two scaled, multi-component interventions
Authors: Rachel Flynn, Kelly Mrklas, Alyson Campbell, Tracy Wasylak, Shannon D. Scott
Year: 2021
Venue: BMC Health Services Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12913-021-07214-5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3209389884

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: (SCNs) to develop and implement evidence-informed, clinician-led and team-delivered health system improvement in Alberta, Canada. SCNs have had several provincial successes in improving health outcomes. Little research has been done on the sustainability of these evidence-based implementation efforts. METHODS: We conducted a qualitative realist evaluation using a case study approach to identify and explain the contextual factors and mechanisms perceived to influence the sustainability of two provincial SCN evidence-based interventions, a delirium intervention for Critical Care and an Appropriate Use of Antipsychotics (AUA) intervention for Senior's Health. The context (C) + mechanism (M) = outcome (O) configurations (CMOcs) heuristic guided our research. RESULTS: We conducted thirty realist interviews in two cases and found four important strategies that facilitated sustainability: Learning collaboratives, audit & feedback, the informal leadership role, and patient stories. These strategies triggered certain mechanisms such as sense-making, understanding value and impact of the intervention, empowerment, and motivation that increased the likelihood of sustainability. For example, informal leaders were often hands-on and influential to front-line staff. Learning collaboratives broke down professional and organizational silos and encouraged collective sharing and learning, motivating participants to continue with the intervention. Continual audit-feedback interventions motivated participants to want to perform and improve on a long-term basis, increasing the likelihood of sustainability of the two multi-component interventions. Patient stories demonstrated the interventions' impact on patient outcomes, motivating staff to want to continue doing the intervention, and increasing the likelihood of its sustainability. CONCLUSIONS: This research contributes to the field of implementation science, providing evidence on key strategies for sustainability and the underlying causal mechanisms of these strategies that increases the likelihood of sustainability. Identifying causal mechanisms provides evidence on the processes by which implementation strategies operate and lead to sustainability. Future work is needed to evaluate the impact of informal leadership, learning collaboratives, audit-feedback, and patient stories as strategies for sustainability, to generate better guidance on planning sustainable improvements with long term impact.
