Title: Formation of Professional Competences and Soft Skills of Public Administration Employees for Sustainable Professional Development
Authors: Pavel Krpálek, Kateřina Berková, Andrea Kubišová, Katarína Krpálková Krelová, Dagmar Frendlovská, Daniela Spiesová
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13105533
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3161772531

Abstract:
(1) Background: The current situation is bringing about changes manifested in the digitalisation of management processes, the aspects of knowledge management, and the transmission of global risks. Demands in the area of soft skills are increasing. Therefore, this study aims to identify the requirements for competences necessary for the effective performance of job positions in public administration in the Czech Republic, including the mapping of interest in further training. (2) Methods: The data were collected in 2020 via questionnaires from 245 employees in relevant positions. The data were analysed using the correlation analysis method for establishing relationships between variables applying the Pearson correlation coefficient. Gender differences and differences between rank-and-file and executive employees were subjected to the Mann–Whitney U-test. (3) Results: The more competence is required by the employer, the more frequently it is used by employees and the more favourably the workers assess themselves in this competence. At the same time, they have a greater need and are willing to train this particular competence. A significant trend has been identified in the case of executives. Soft skills are used most frequently and the employees would like to further train them. The least interest is shown in project management training. As to professional competences, digital systems are the most frequently used and required. (4) Conclusions: The research suggests trends in the development of modern technologies, digitalisation, and information systems that will contribute to effective work in public administration. Soft skill development in rank-and-file and executive employees will also be needed.
