Title: Designing a path for the sustainable development of key ecological function zones: A case study of southwest China
Authors: Meiying Sun, Rongjin Yang, Xiuhong Li, Zhang Le, Qiang Liu
Year: 2021
Venue: Global Ecology and Conservation
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gecco.2021.e01840
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3202334197

Abstract:
The Chinese government has designated areas with critically important ecosystems as key ecological function zones (KEFZs) under restrictive development regimes to maintain and improve their supplies of ecological products and services. A strategy of sustainable development is required for KEFZs in southwest China, given their fragile eco-environments, important eco-functions, and lagging economies. This study aimed to identify and compare changes in ecological security, economic development, and the extent of their coordination in KEFZs and non-KEFZs in southwest China in 2010, 2015 and 2018 (i.e., before and after the policy of restricted development was introduced). The assessment systems of ecological security and economic development were constructed for assessing these areas. A coupling coordination degree (CCD) model was used to evaluate coordination levels between ecological security and economic development. Overall, the results indicated that the levels of ecological security in KEFZs were exceeded non-KEFZs. In 2010, KEFZs and non-KEFZs evidenced similar levels of economic development and CCDs. The economic development of KEFZs was lagging behind that of non-KEFZs after restrictive development regimes in KEFZs. The slow economic growth further hindered the improvement of the coordination between ecological security and economic development for KEFZs. The gaps between KEFZs and non-KEFZs regarding economic development and coordination levels were widening. The study provided some strategies for the sustainable development of southwest China’s KEFZs, including the development of clean resources, the strategy of partial development and comprehensive environmental protection, the formulation of lists of allowed, restricted and prohibited industries, and effective utilization of ecological compensation policies.
