Title: Green Innovation as a Mediator between Green Human Resource Management Practices and Sustainable Performance in Palestinian Manufacturing Industries
Authors: Mohammad Kanan, Baha Taha, Yahya Saleh, Mohammed Alsayed, Ramiz Assaf, Mohamed Ben Hassen, Elham Alshaibani, Ali Bakır, Weam Tunsi
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15021077
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313824200

Abstract:
Green human resources management (GHRM) is a critical research issue that has emerged in recent decades. This study aims to investigate the effect of GHRM practices on sustainable performance, with green innovation as a mediating variable, in manufacturing firms in Palestine. To this end, a research model was developed, and a self-administered questionnaire was designed and distributed to a random sample of top management personnel in manufacturing firms in Palestine. The research model was assessed via the partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) using the Smart-PLS software, based on a sample of 58 responses. The model revealed that GHRM practices, green innovation, and sustainable performance are implemented at a moderate level. Moreover, the results confirmed that GHRM practices and green innovation have significant positive effects on sustainable performance. GHRM practices also positively and significantly affect green innovation. Green innovation partially mediates the relation between GHRM practices and sustainable performance. The results of this research present a conceptual framework and a guideline for policymakers in manufacturing firms on how to use GHRM practices to strengthen employees’ commitment to the environment in order to maximize sustainable performance. Furthermore, the study provides a holistic view of GHRM practices, green innovation, and sustainable performance; such a perspective is considered a foundation for future research directions and provides empirical evidence about the relationships between these variables.
