Title: Shifting from academic air travel to sustainable research exchange: Examining networking efficacy during virtual conferences
Authors: Ariane Wenger
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Cleaner Production
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.137577
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4378191079

Abstract:
Academic conferences are important places for exchanging scientific knowledge and building professional networks, but they also contribute to climate change through emissions caused by air travel. Hence, more sustainable conferences are needed. The unforeseen COVID-19 pandemic presented an opportunity to develop more sustainable conferences by shifting to effective virtual communication. Studies have demonstrated that virtual conferences are often more sustainable, but also more inclusive than in-person conferences, but that they – like in-person conferences – also have drawbacks. Researchers perceive ineffective networking due to a lack of social interaction as the biggest disadvantage of current virtual conferences. This study aims to examine researchers' experiences with virtual conferences by investigating the factors that influence networking efficacy during virtual conferences. To do so, 21 semi-structured interviews were conducted with virtual conference organisers and attendees from various career stages, countries and scientific fields. The input-process-output framework was used to structure the factors that participants mentioned as facilitating or constraining networking. The results demonstrate conference organisers' important role in thinking carefully about technical equipment that facilitates networking and specifically planning virtual conferences’ networking sessions. This study is the first to structure factors that influence networking efficacy systematically during virtual conferences. The results of this study revealed that best practice examples of effective virtual networking exist, thus providing a starting point for the shift from academic air travel to more sustainable research exchange.
