Title: The Economarketing Model: Development of Productive and Sustainable Tourism Area
Authors: Yuli Agustina, Trisetia Wijijayanti, Agung Winarno, Wening Patmi Rahayu
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Professional Business Review
DOI: https://doi.org/10.26668/businessreview/2023.v8i2.1017
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4323049305

Abstract:
Purpose: The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of green marketing on the tourist intention to avoid future damage to the "Lingkar Selorejo" tourism area, which is supposed to be developed by the Malang Regency government. Theoretical framework: The examination of Lingkar Selorejo as a green marketing rural tourism village comprises of identification of local potential, resources, social and local community insight. Thereafter, determining an appropriate green marketing model as a concept. Finally, creating a road map of Green Marketing implementation. Design/methodology/approach: The research used descriptive qualitative method based on the philosophy of positivism to examine the natural conditions. Primary and secondary data collection techniques used include observation, interview and questionnaire, documentation, and related literature as well as documents. Non-probability sampling technique with the census method was used for data collection, thus everyone serving in the village office was used as a research sample because the number of officials was relatively small, around 10-15 people. Findings: The findings: reveal that SMEs in this region had not implemented Green Marketing due to lack of awareness and high costs and failure by the government to offer support. Besides, the people had not yet considered green marketing and still prioritized low prices and quality products. Research, Practical &amp; Social implications: Further research needs to be studied more deeply in relation with the dimensions of economarketing model, especially on the development of productive and sustainable tourism area which needs to be studied if this variable is included in further research. Originality/value: The value of the study indicate that concern and awareness of the environment and health have changed the outlook and lifestyle of humans and business people. This is evidenced by the changing pattern of business approaches that directs entities with environmental sustainability based activity criteria.
