Title: Challenges hindering women entrepreneurship sustainability in rural livelihoods: Case of Manicaland province
Authors: Rahabhi Mashapure, Brighton Nyagadza, Lovemore Chikazhe, Nothando Msipa, Grace Kuda Portia Ngorora, Aaram Gwiza
Year: 2022
Venue: Cogent Social Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/23311886.2022.2132675
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306392962

Abstract:
The main purpose of this research is to examine the challenges hindering sustainability of women entrepreneurship in rural areas of Manicaland province, Zimbabwe. A qualitative research was conducted in Manicaland province in Zimbabwe. Data were collected through interviews from 30 women entrepreneurs in the various sectors of the economy. The respondents were specialised in vegetable vending, operating clothing flea markets and cross border trading. Interview guide was used to collect data from respondents and the major theme approach were used to analyse and present data. The study established that women entrepreneurs face various challenges such as lack of collateral security to access funding; lack of market information and occurrence of disasters in the localities. These challenges hinder sustainability of women entrepreneurship in Zimbabwe. It was highlighted that there is compelling need for availing market information; adequate knowledge and skills; supportive government schemes; need for community involvement and participation to support women entrepreneurial activities in the study area. It is clear that if the discovered challenges are not addressed, sustainability of women entrepreneurship will remain a dream. The study came up with strategies for improving women entrepreneurship activities in the Zimbabwean context. Future research can be done in other provinces s to avoid generalisation of findings based on this particular study. Many challenges hinder the sustainability of women entrepreneurship. Major impediments to women entrepreneurship comprises inadequate support from government schemes, patriarchal societal structure of the community, lack of relevant entrepreneurial knowledge to manage businesses, lack of collateral security to access funding, time limitation or role conflict to balance family pressures and business. The study recommends proper entrepreneurship education and training, supportive government schemes and access to network affiliation/connection to sustain women entrepreneurship in Zimbabwe.
