Title: An Ethical Framework for Artificial Intelligence and Sustainable Cities
Authors: David Pastor-Escuredo, Philip Treleaven, Ricardo Vinuesa
Year: 2022
Venue: AI
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ai3040057
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4310148204

Abstract:
The digital revolution has brought ethical crossroads of technology and behavior, especially in the realm of sustainable cities. The need for a comprehensive and constructive ethical framework is emerging as digital platforms encounter trouble to articulate the transformations required to accomplish the sustainable development goal (SDG) 11 (on sustainable cities), and the remainder of the related SDGs. The unequal structure of the global system leads to dynamic and systemic problems, which have a more significant impact on those that are most vulnerable. Ethical frameworks based only on the individual level are no longer sufficient as they lack the necessary articulation to provide solutions to the new systemic challenges. A new ethical vision of digitalization must comprise the understanding of the scales and complex interconnections among SDGs and the ongoing socioeconomic and industrial revolutions. Many of the current social systems are internally fragile and very sensitive to external factors and threats, which lead to unethical situations. Furthermore, the multilayered net-like social tissue generates clusters of influence and leadership that prevent communities from a proper development. Digital technology has also had an impact at the individual level, posing several risks including a more homogeneous and predictable humankind. To preserve the core of humanity, we propose an ethical framework to empower individuals centered on the cities and interconnected with the socioeconomic ecosystem and the environment through the complex relationships of the SDGs. Only by combining human-centered and collectiveness-oriented digital development will it be possible to construct new social models and interactions that are ethical. Thus, it is necessary to combine ethical principles with the digital innovation undergoing in all the dimensions of sustainability.
