Title: Carbon nanotube-reinforced polymer nanocomposites for sustainable biomedical applications: A review
Authors: Oladiran Kamardeen Abubakre, Rasaq Olawale Medupin, Idris Babatunde Akintunde, Oladejo Tijani Jimoh, Ambali Saka Abdulkareem, R. A. Muriana, John Adeniran James, Kingsley Ukoba, Tien‐Chien Jen, Kelvin O. Yoro
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Science Advanced Materials and Devices
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsamd.2023.100557
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4360798273

Abstract:
The search for viable alternatives to conventional materials in biomedical applications is as important as the movement for the adoption of a sustainability approach in the production of polymer nanocomposites for prosthetic purposes. Carbon nanotube (CNT) reinforced polymer nanocomposites have become the center of the present prosthetic industry due to their unparalleled strength-to-weight characteristics. However, the categories of polymers used for this purpose and their long-term impact on the environment have generated controversies among researchers. The adequacy, affordability, and sustainability of materials for the development of prosthetics are some of the common concerns. Consequently, this review addresses concerns about the adherence to SDGs in biomedical manufacturing which focuses on material selection considering environmental impacts. In addition, contributions from previous research were reviewed based on the remarkable increase in the number of publications on CNT-reinforced polymer nanocomposites over the last 10 years. Various findings by researchers in the field who used natural rubber and other polymers as host matrices were analyzed from the perspective of sustainability. While considerable progress has been made in the use of other polymers in the biomedical field, only a few publications have targeted natural rubber. This review provides insights into opportunities for sustainable production and consumption of devices with biodegradable CNT/natural rubber nanocomposites.
