Title: Strategies for Enhancing Plant Immunity and Resilience Using Nanomaterials for Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Peng Zhang, Yaqi Jiang, Fabienne Schwab, Fazel Abdolahpur Monikh, Renato Grillo, Jason C. White, Zhiling Guo, Iseult Lynch
Year: 2024
Venue: Environmental Science & Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.4c03522
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396890063

Abstract:
Research on plant-nanomaterial interactions has greatly advanced over the past decade. One particularly fascinating discovery encompasses the immunomodulatory effects in plants. Due to the low doses needed and the comparatively low toxicity of many nanomaterials, nanoenabled immunomodulation is environmentally and economically promising for agriculture. It may reduce environmental costs associated with excessive use of chemical pesticides and fertilizers, which can lead to soil and water pollution. Furthermore, nanoenabled strategies can enhance plant resilience against various biotic and abiotic stresses, contributing to the sustainability of agricultural ecosystems and the reduction of crop losses due to environmental factors. While nanoparticle immunomodulatory effects are relatively well-known in animals, they are still to be understood in plants. Here, we provide our perspective on the general components of the plant's immune system, including the signaling pathways, networks, and molecules of relevance for plant nanomodulation. We discuss the recent scientific progress in nanoenabled immunomodulation and nanopriming and lay out key avenues to use plant immunomodulation for agriculture. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade, and the calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK or CPK) pathway are of particular interest due to their interconnected function and significance in the response to biotic and abiotic stress. Additionally, we underscore that understanding the plant hormone salicylic acid is vital for nanoenabled applications to induce systemic acquired resistance. It is suggested that a multidisciplinary approach, incorporating environmental impact assessments and focusing on scalability, can expedite the realization of enhanced crop yields through nanotechnology while fostering a healthier environment.
