Title: Application of Natural Coagulants in Water Treatment: A Sustainable Alternative to Chemicals
Authors: Bhupendra Koul, Nargis Bhat, Mustapha Abubakar, Meerambika Mishra, Ananta Prasad Arukha, Dhananjay Yadav
Year: 2022
Venue: Water
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/w14223751
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4309785478

Abstract:
Water treatment (WT) is currently among the major areas of research due to the depletion of water resources and fearmongering regarding environmental pollution, which has compelled the upgrading of conventional WT technology towards recycling and reuse. This review aims to provide the current state of natural coagulants and their application in the purification of surface water as sufficient clean water is required for household needs, health security, and environmental safety. A thorough and systematic review of the existing literature was performed, and the information related to water treatment using natural coagulants was compiled from 237 articles under various sections using a computerized bibliographic search via PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, Google Scholar, CAB Abstracts, and several websites. The work provides explicit information related to natural coagulants and their merits and limitations, outlines methods to increase their coagulation performance, and highlights their coagulation mechanism, efficacy, valorization potential, and sustainability. From the information obtained, it can be concluded that although chemical coagulants are efficient in WT, they are usually expensive, toxic, associated with health issues, and thus non-sustainable. A sustainable alternative is the use of natural coagulants, which are readily available, economical, easy to use, biodegradable, non-toxic, eco-friendly, effective, and generate lower sludge volumes. They work via an adsorption process that involves polymeric bridging or neutralization of the charge. The WT efficiency of natural coagulants ranges from 50–500 nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs), which is similar to chemicals. Thus, they can be deployed in WT regimes and can contribute to the health security of rural populations in developing countries. It is unfortunate that, despite the known benefits of natural coagulants, their acceptance, commercialization, and widespread industrial application across the globe are still low. Therefore, there is a need for more exhaustive investigations regarding the mode of action, adoption, and commercialization of natural coagulants as a sustainable alternative to chemicals for a circular economy.
