Title: Silicon-based nanoparticles for mitigating the effect of potentially toxic elements and plant stress in agroecosystems: A sustainable pathway towards food security
Authors: Emmanuel Sunday Okeke, Ekene John Nweze, Tobechukwu Christian Ezike, Charles O. Nwuche, Timothy Prince Chidike Ezeorba, Chidiebele Nwankwo
Year: 2023
Venue: The Science of The Total Environment
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.165446
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4384562440

Abstract:
Due to their size, flexibility, biocompatibility, large surface area, and variable functionality nanoparticles have enormous industrial, agricultural, pharmaceutical and biotechnological applications. This has led to their widespread use in various fields. The advancement of knowledge in this field of research has altered our way of life from medicine to agriculture. One of the rungs of this revolution, which has somewhat reduced the harmful consequences, is nanotechnology. A helpful ingredient for plants, silicon (Si), is well-known for its preventive properties under adverse environmental conditions. Several studies have shown how biogenic silica helps plants recover from biotic and abiotic stressors. The majority of research have demonstrated the benefits of silicon-based nanoparticles (Si-NPs) for plant growth and development, particularly under stressful environments. In order to minimize the release of brine, heavy metals, and radioactive chemicals into water, remove metals, non-metals, and radioactive components, and purify water, silica has also been used in environmental remediation. Potentially toxic elements (PTEs) have become a huge threat to food security through their negative impact on agroecosystem. Si-NPs have the potentials to remove PTEs from agroecosystem and promote food security via the promotion of plant growth and development. In this review, we have outlined the various sources and ecotoxicological consequences of PTEs in agroecosystems. The potentials of Si-NPs in mitigating PTEs were extensively discussed and other applications of Si-NPs in agriculture to foster food security were also highlighted.
