Title: Fly ash-based geopolymers: an emerging sustainable solution for heavy metal remediation from aqueous medium
Authors: Piyush Gupta, Garima Nagpal, N. P. Gupta
Year: 2021
Venue: Beni-Suef University Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s43088-021-00179-8
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200014634

Abstract:
Abstract Background The water supplies are hindered because aquatic resources have constrained with natural and man-made pollution activities in terms of releasing huge amounts of contaminants from different point and non-point sources across the globe. The industries like metal plating, batteries, paint, fertilizers, tanneries, textile industries, dyeing industries, mining operations, and paper industries discharge their effluents into the environment directly or indirectly, and hence, they are considered as the key sources of heavy metals contamination in water resources. Heavy metals are inorganic, non-biodegradable, persistent, and having a tendency to get accumulated in biotic and abiotic components of environment as compared to organic pollutants. Some heavy metal cations, for example, mercury, arsenic, cadmium, zinc, lead, nickel, copper, and chromium, are carcinogenic in nature and so, lethal. There are growing health concerns due to toxic impacts of heavy metals on every genre of ecosystem. To deal with the bottleneck situation, it is highly imperative to search a feasible solution for heavy metal remediation in water in context of preventing amalgamation of noxious contaminants in food web. Different methods are exercised for the remediation of such impurities from its solutions. One method, i.e. adsorption is found to be the simplest, economical, efficient, and eco-friendly in this context. Main body Geopolymers exhibit heterogeneous amorphous microstructure and wide surface area. The compatibility for depollution and the performance of these materials mainly depend upon their preparation methods, composition, and microstructure. Fly ash-based geopolymer may serve as a better alternate to various cost-effective adsorbents and it will be a proven environmentally viable, waste to money solution by consuming heaps of fly ash waste for the adsorbent modified by using fly ash. The possible utilization of wastes from several industries is a matter of concerned sustainability benefits. This study shows that fly ash-based geopolymers have the potential to cope up with the problems and risk factors associated with the fly ash waste management and it would be the utmost scientific panacea in the field of removing toxins from aqueous medium and maintain environmental health in the future. Short conclusions The literature available in different databases is very limited pertaining to heavy metal remediation using fly ash-based geopolymers . Keeping all the factors in mind, this article is an attempt to summarize relevant informations related to work done on fly ash-based geopolymers for treating aqueous solutions comprising heavy metals.
