Title: The Potential of Hydrogeodesy to Address Water‐Related and Sustainability Challenges
Authors: Fernando Jaramillo, Saeid Aminjafari, Pascal Castellazzi, Ayan Santos Fleischmann, Etienne Fluet‐Chouinard, Hossein Hashemi, Clara Hübinger, Hilary R. Martens, Fabrice Papa, Tilo Schöne, Angelica Tarpanelli, Vili Virkki, Lan Wang‐Erlandsson, Rodrigo Abarca-del-Río, A. A. Borsa, Georgia Destouni, Giuliano Di Baldassarre, Michele‐Lee Moore, José A Posada-Marín, Shimon Wdowinski, Susanna Werth, George H. Allen, Donald F. Argus, Omid Elmi, Luciana Fenoglio-Marc, Frédéric Frappart, Xander Huggins, Zahra Kalantari, Simon Munier, Sebastián Palomino‐Ángel, Abigail Robinson, Kristian Rubiano, Gabriela Siles, Marc Simard, Chunqiao Song, Christopher Spence, Mohammad J. Tourian, Yoshihide Wada, Chao Wang, Jida Wang, Fangfang Yao, Wouter R. Berghuijs, Jean‐François Crétaux, J. S. Famiglietti, Alice César Fassoni‐Andrade, Jessica V. Fayne, Félix Girard, Matti Kummu, Kristine M. Larson, Martin Marañon, Daniel Medeiros Moreira, Karina Nielsen, Tamlin M. Pavelsky, Francisco J. Peña, J. T. Reager, Maria Cristina Rulli, Juan F. Salazar
Year: 2024
Venue: Water Resources Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1029/2023wr037020
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403993071

Abstract:
Abstract Increasing climatic and human pressures are changing the world's water resources and hydrological processes at unprecedented rates. Understanding these changes requires comprehensive monitoring of water resources. Hydrogeodesy, the science that measures the Earth's solid and aquatic surfaces, gravity field, and their changes over time, delivers a range of novel monitoring tools that are complementary to traditional hydrological methods. It encompasses geodetic technologies such as Altimetry, Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR), Gravimetry, and Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS). Beyond quantifying these changes, there is a need to understand how hydrogeodesy can contribute to more ambitious goals dealing with water‐related and sustainability sciences. Addressing this need, we combine a meta‐analysis of over 3,000 articles to chart the range, trends, and applications of satellite‐based hydrogeodesy with an expert elicitation that systematically assesses the potential of hydrogeodesy. We find a growing body of literature relating to the advancements in hydrogeodetic methods, their accuracy and precision, and their inclusion in hydrological modeling, with a considerably smaller portion related to understanding hydrological processes, water management, and sustainability sciences. The meta‐analysis also shows that while lakes, groundwater and glaciers are commonly monitored by these technologies, wetlands or permafrost could benefit from a wider range of applications. In turn, the expert elicitation envisages the potential of hydrogeodesy to help solve the 23 Unsolved Questions of the International Association of Hydrological Sciences and advance knowledge as guidance toward a safe operating space for humanity. It also highlights how this potential can be maximized by combining hydrogeodetic technologies simultaneously, exploiting artificial intelligence, and accurately integrating other Earth science disciplines. Finally, we call for a coordinated way forward to include hydrogeodesy in tertiary education and broaden its application to water‐related and sustainability sciences in order to exploit its full potential.
