Title: Relation Between Financial Literacy and Carbon Footprint: Review on Implications for Sustainable Development
Authors: Lyubomir Todorov, Aleksandrina Aleksandrova, Taner Ismailov
Year: 2023
Venue: Economics ecology socium
DOI: https://doi.org/10.31520/2616-7107/2023.7.2-2
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382882973

Abstract:
Introduction. Financial literacy has been recognized worldwide as a significant element of stability and economic and financial growth. With the evolution of financial instruments, the growing importance of financial inclusion, its correlation with financial literacy, and the effects they have on sustainability, the concept of financial literacy is dramatically changing and getting more inclusive, spreading the focus on sustainability, sustainable consumption, and environmental preservation. Aim and tasks. The aim of the study is to examine the connection between the population's financial literacy level and greenhouse gas emissions. The working hypothesis claims that there is a relationship between financial literacy and the carbon footprint. Results. The correlation and regression analyses were the main tools in the study, while the dataset for 2014 covered 137 countries, with the main dependent variables being carbon emissions per capita, per unit of gross domestic product, and per unit of energy. The partial correlation coefficients between financial literacy rating and carbon footprint variables were insignificant when controlled for economic development, represented by per capita gross domestic product. Estimated econometric models with financial literacy in quadratic form were adequate and showed a significant connection between financial literacy and carbon emissions per capita and per gross domestic product at the 5% level. The relationship with carbon emissions per unit of energy was significant at the 10% level. In all three models, the relationships followed an inverse U-shape, with low financial literacy increasing the carbon footprint and higher financial literacy decreasing it. The turning numbers for financial literacy were 35.8% for carbon emissions per capita, 41.4% for emissions per unit of gross domestic product, and 32.4% for emissions per unit of energy. Conclusions. Financial literacy was indeed associated with carbon emissions in a complex, non-linear way. The effect of energy consumption on carbon emissions was stronger than financial literacy and appeared to be the driving force for the increase in carbon emissions. With low financial literacy observed in underdeveloped countries, the situation was not favorable for the environment. As financial literacy increased, welfare, income, and consumption increased too, leading to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, i.e., a bigger CO2 footprint. Once a certain stage of economic development was reached, the relationship was reversed, i.e., in developed countries, financial literacy worked towards reducing the carbon footprint and protecting the environment.
