Title: Functional silver nanoparticles synthesis from sustainable point of view: 2000 to 2023 ‒ A review on game changing materials
Authors: K. M. Faridul Hasan, Liu Xiaoyi, Shaoqin Zhou, Péter György Horváth, Miklós Bak, László Bejó, György Sípos, Tibor Alpár
Year: 2022
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e12322
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4312084327

Abstract:
The green and facile synthesis of metallic silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) is getting tremendous attention for exploring superior applications because of their small dimensions and shape. AgNPs are already proven materials for superior coloration, biocidal, thermal, UV-protection, and mechanical performance. Originally, some conventional chemical-based reducing agents were used to synthesize AgNPs, but these posed potential risks, especially for enhanced toxicity. This became a driving force to innovate plant-based sustainable and green metallic nanoparticles (NPs). Moreover, the synthesized NPs using plant-based derivatives could be tuned and regulated to achieve the required shape and size of the AgNPs. AgNPs synthesized from naturally derived materials are safe, economical, eco-friendly, facile, and convenient, which is also motivating researchers to find greener routes and viable options, utilizing various parts of plants like flowers, stems, heartwood, leaves and carbohydrates like chitosan to meet the demands. This article intends to provide a comprehensive review of all aspects of AgNP materials, including green synthesis methodology and mechanism, incorporation of advanced technologies, morphological and elemental study, functional properties (coloration, UV-protection, biocidal, thermal, and mechanical properties), marketing value, future prospects and application, especially for the last 20 years or more. The article also includes a SWOT (Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis regarding the use of AgNPs. This report would facilitate the industries and consumers associated with AgNP synthesis and application through fulfilling the demand for sustainable, feasible, and low-cost product manufacturing protocols and their future prospects.
