Title: Darkweb research: Past, present, and future trends and mapping to sustainable development goals
Authors: Raghu Raman, Vinith Kumar Nair, Prema Nedungadi, Indrakshi Ray, Krishnashree Achuthan
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e22269
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388773237

Abstract:
The Darkweb, part of the deep web, can be accessed only through specialized computer software and used for illegal activities such as cybercrime, drug trafficking, and exploitation. Technological advancements like Tor, bitcoin, and cryptocurrencies allow criminals to carry out these activities anonymously, leading to increased use of the Darkweb. At the same time, computers have become an integral part of our daily lives, shaping our behavior, and influencing how we interact with each other and the world. This work carries out the bibliometric study on the research conducted on Darkweb over the last decade. The findings illustrate that most research on Darkweb can be clustered into four areas based on keyword co-occurrence analysis: (i) network security, malware, and cyber-attacks, (ii) cybercrime, data privacy, and cryptography, (iii) machine learning, social media, and artificial intelligence, and (iv) drug trafficking, cryptomarket. National Science Foundation from the United States is the top funder. Darkweb activities interfere with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) laid forth by the United Nations to promote peace and sustainability for current and future generations. SDG 16 (Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions) has the highest number of publications and citations but has an inverse relationship with Darkweb, as the latter undermines the former. This study highlights the need for further research in bitcoin, blockchain, IoT, NLP, cryptocurrencies, phishing and cybercrime, botnets and malware, digital forensics, and electronic crime countermeasures about the Darkweb. The study further elucidates the multi-dimensional nature of the Darkweb, emphasizing the intricate relationship between technology, psychology, and geopolitics. This comprehensive understanding serves as a cornerstone for evolving effective countermeasures and calls for an interdisciplinary research approach. The study also delves into the psychological motivations driving individuals towards illegal activities on the Darkweb, highlighting the urgency for targeted interventions to promote pro-social online behavior.
