Title: Sustainable utilization of cultivated land resources based on "element coupling-function synergy" analytical framework: A case study of Guangdong, China
Authors: Hao Yang, Runyan Zou, Yueming Hu, Lu Wang, Yingkai Xie, Zhengxi Tan, Zhiqiang Zhu, A‐Xing Zhu, Jianzhou Gong, Xiaoyun Mao
Year: 2024
Venue: Land Use Policy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2024.107316
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401658423

Abstract:
Solely focusing on the agricultural production function of cultivated land resources is not conducive to the various demands for meeting the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. Recognizing the multifunctionality of cultivated land and understanding the interrelationships between individual functions are crucial for the rational planning and utilization of resources. This paper introduces an "element coupling-function synergy" analytical framework for the sustainable utilization of cultivated land resources. The proposed framework is based on the causal relationships between elements and functions within the cultivated land system. Subsequently, a causal Bayesian belief network was constructed to identify trade-offs and synergies among multiple functions of cultivated land resources in Guangdong, China. The findings reveal trade-offs between food cleanliness and food production/social security, and synergistic relationships among food production, social security, and ecological regulation, as well as among ecological regulation, habitat maintenance and landscape culture. The study area was divided into eight functional zones: Green Agricultural Zone, Agro-inputs Control Zone, Urban Agricultural Zone, Major Grain-producing Zone, Modern Agricultural Zone, Agro-ecological Preservation Zone, Agro-ecological Tourism Zone, Quality Improvement Zone. Multi-objective management plans were formulated for optimizing multifunctional relationships within each zone. The analysis result reveals the importance of nutrient conditions and ecological environments for the sustainable management of cultivated land. Consequently, specific policy recommendations are proposed accordingly. This paper may not only advance understanding of the multifunctionality of cultivated land but can also provide valuable insights for land-use planning to ensure the judicious and sustainable management of cultivated land resources. • An "element coupling-function synergy" framework was introduced. • A Bayesian belief network was created to identify the functional trade-off/synergy. • Functional zoning helps to optimize functional relationships by adjusting elements. • The ecologic environment is vital to the cultivated land resources' sustainability.
