Title: Microbial Community and Function-Based Synthetic Bioinoculants: A Perspective for Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Archna Suman, Venkadasamy Govindasamy, Balasubramanian Ramakrishnan, K. Aswini, J. SaiPrasad, Pushpendra Sharma, Devashish Pathak, K. Annapurna
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Microbiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2021.805498
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4220797913

Abstract:
Interactions among the plant microbiome and its host are dynamic, both spatially and temporally, leading to beneficial or pathogenic relationships in the rhizosphere, phyllosphere, and endosphere. These interactions range from cellular to molecular and genomic levels, exemplified by many complementing and coevolutionary relationships. The host plants acquire many metabolic and developmental traits such as alteration in their exudation pattern, acquisition of systemic tolerance, and coordination of signaling metabolites to interact with the microbial partners including bacteria, fungi, archaea, protists, and viruses. The microbiome responds by gaining or losing its traits to various molecular signals from the host plants and the environment. Such adaptive traits in the host and microbial partners make way for their coexistence, living together on, around, or inside the plants. The beneficial plant microbiome interactions have been exploited using traditional culturable approaches by isolating microbes with target functions, clearly contributing toward the host plants' growth, fitness, and stress resilience. The new knowledge gained on the unculturable members of the plant microbiome using metagenome research has clearly indicated the predominance of particular phyla/genera with presumptive functions. Practically, the culturable approach gives beneficial microbes in hand for direct use, whereas the unculturable approach gives the perfect theoretical information about the taxonomy and metabolic potential of well-colonized major microbial groups associated with the plants. To capitalize on such beneficial, endemic, and functionally diverse microbiome, the strategic approach of concomitant use of culture-dependent and culture-independent techniques would help in designing novel "biologicals" for various crops. The designed biologicals (or bioinoculants) should ensure the community's persistence due to their genomic and functional abilities. Here, we discuss the current paradigm on plant-microbiome-induced adaptive functions for the host and the strategies for synthesizing novel bioinoculants based on functions or phylum predominance of microbial communities using culturable and unculturable approaches. The effective crop-specific inclusive microbial community bioinoculants may lead to reduction in the cost of cultivation and improvement in soil and plant health for sustainable agriculture.
