Title: Data-Driven Decision-Making: Leveraging the IoT for Real-Time Sustainability in Organizational Behavior
Authors: Saadia Malik
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16156302
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400949491

Abstract:
In today’s business environments, data-driven decision-making has played a crucial role in bringing real-time sustainability to organizational behavior. Furthermore, the Internet of Things (IoT) has been widely adopted recently, but studies investigating its impact on organizational dynamics and sustainability are limited. This study explores the IoT’s potential to improve the real-time decision-making and sustainability of organizations. A cross-sectional study was conducted on 250 respondents belonging to a diverse range of industries. Five variables were analyzed in the study—IoT implementation, real-time data analytics, decision-making, organizational behavior, and organizational performance. These variables were scored on a 5-point Likert-type scale, with responses ranging from 1 = Strongly Disagree to 5 = Strongly Agree. The data were collected with the help of a structured questionnaire. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, Pearson correlations, and structural equation modeling (SEM) to test the relationships among the study variables. The findings indicate that enhanced organizational behavior (r = 0.1101), decision-making (r = 0.269), and real-time data analytics (r = 0.1888) are all strongly associated with the IoT. Applying structural equation modeling further reveals a direct connection between IoT adoption and company performance. Moreover, it is observed that the coefficients for organizational behavior (β = 0.0707, p &lt; 0.01) and real-time data analytics (β = 0.0851, p &lt; 0.001) are statistically significant. This study demonstrates how the IoT can bring real-time sustainability to organizational behavior by improving decision-making and business operations. Although decision-making is enhanced by the IoT, organizations still need to optimize their resource usage and reduce waste to enhance sustainability. This study bridges a substantial gap in the existing literature by carefully investigating the relationship between IoT technology, organizational behavior, and decision-making techniques. Our findings conclude that leveraging the IoT changes the nature of digital innovation and brings real-time sustainability to organizational behavior.
