Title: Artificial intelligence applications for information management in sustainable supply chain management: A systematic review and future research agenda
Authors: Alok Yadav, Rajiv Kumar Garg, Anish Sachdeva
Year: 2024
Venue: International Journal of Information Management Data Insights
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jjimei.2024.100292
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402977426

Abstract:
• Explores AI applications for improving information management and sustainability in supply chains. • Discusses the benefits, challenges, and key success factors of AI in supply chain management. • Proposes an AI-based framework to enhance sustainability in supply chain practices. • Highlights future research directions and implications for AI-driven sustainable supply chains. In a Sustainable Supply Chain (SSC) context, information management offers a unique perspective on the digital economy and information management. Artificial intelligence (AI) is developing into a more robust digital field to facilitate quick information access and intelligent decisions in expanding commercial contexts. These days, Supply Chains (SC) would crumble without robust information systems. Applying AI and information management is crucial in determining the direction of sustainable supply chain management (SSCM). A systematic literature review (SLR) of the use of AI in SSCM is conducted in this research. The authors can identify crucial factors of the present literature using bibliometric and network analysis. AI is essential to the SSC to address sustainability challenges and manage the large volumes of data produced by numerous industrial processes. In the corpus of research that is already accessible, there is currently no comprehensive and bibliometric analysis of the potential for AI techniques for information management in SSC. Scientific publications were analysed from an objective point of view. Based on our results, we have drafted a proposal for an AI supply chain framework. Researchers, policymakers, and SCM practitioners may all benefit from the approach. This study is the first to analyse AI applications for information management in SSCM. In consideration of this, organizations are now exploring AI capabilities to improve operational efficiency and innovate their processes. This will assist industry people in understanding how AI methods support SC processes in their optimization to attain sustainability in SC practices.
