Title: Contribution of sustained attention abilities to real-world academic skills in children
Authors: Courtney L. Gallen, Simon Schaerlaeken, Jessica Wise Younger, Jessica Wise Younger, Kristine D. O’Laughlin, Joaquin A. Anguera, Silvia A. Bunge, Emilio Ferrer, Fumiko Hoeft, Bruce D. McCandliss, Jyoti Mishra, Miriam Rosenberg‐Lee, Adam Gazzaley, Melina R. Uncapher, Joaquin A. Anguera, Adam Gazzaley
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-29427-w
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321003685

Abstract:
Abstract Sustained attention is a critical cognitive ability that improves over the course of development and predicts important real-world outcomes, such as academic achievement. However, the majority of work demonstrating links between sustained attention and academic skills has been conducted in lab-based settings that lack the ecological validity of a more naturalistic environment, like school. Further, most studies focus on targeted academic measures of specific sub-skills and have not fully examined whether this relationship generalizes to broad measures of academic achievement that are used for important, real-world, academic advancement decisions, such as standardized test scores. To address this gap, we examined the role of sustained attention in predicting targeted and broad assessments of academic abilities, where all skills were assessed in group-based environments in schools. In a sample of over 700 students aged 9–14, we showed that attention was positively related to performance on targeted assessments (math fluency and reading comprehension), as well as broad academic measures (statewide standardized test scores). Moreover, we found that attention was more predictive of targeted math sub-skills compared to assessments of broad math abilities, but was equally predictive of reading for both types of measures. Our findings add to our understanding of how sustained attention is linked to academic skills assessed in more ‘real-world’, naturalistic school environments and have important implications for designing tools to support student’s academic success.
