Title: Environmentally sustainable apparel merchandising of recycled cotton-polyester blended garments: Analysis of consumer preferences and purchasing behaviors
Authors: Arnob Dhar Pranta, Md. Tareque Rahaman, Md. Reazuddin Repon, Abdullah Al Rakib Shikder
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Open Innovation Technology Market and Complexity
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joitmc.2024.100357
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401324440

Abstract:
This research work examines how consumer behavior and purchasing pattern are affected by recycled cotton-polyester blended clothing, with a particular emphasis on sustainable apparel merchandising. The use of recycled materials has drawn a lot of attention as environmental sustainability in the fashion business is growing attention. In order to investigate customer behavior, perceptions, preferences and purchasing decisions regarding recycled cotton-polyester blended clothing.This research employed a mixed-methods design that included both qualitative and quantitative methods. For a deeper understanding of the customer attitudes, opinions and motives towards sustainable fashion recycled materials in particular, this phase qualitatively involves a one-on-one interview and focus group discussions based on age, gender social class as well as the level of education. In addition, the study considers aspects such as longevity in use, wear resistance, quality, ease of use and clothing comfort that influence buying decisions. Using data from the qualitative phase as a foundation, the quantitative phase uses surveys given to a broad consumer sample to measure consumer preferences and purchasing pattern for recycled cotton-polyester clothing. This research aims at identifying the key factors that impact the preference of customers and buying behavior for recycled cotton and polyester blends based apparel. Additionally, it aims to assess how well sustainable clothing merchandising techniques work to promote these goods. This study indicates that individuals aged 25–45 from higher social strata and with higher educational attainment exhibit greater awareness and preference for recycled apparel with more than 60 % demonstrating a marked inclination towards these products.
