Title: Biochar for a sustainable future: Environmentally friendly production and diverse applications
Authors: Maryam Afshar, Saeed Mofatteh
Year: 2024
Venue: Results in Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.102433
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399786065

Abstract:
Biochar, as a carbon-rich substance produced from the thermal decomposition of organic biomass, is promising for sustainable environmental management. The production and consumption of this substance can directly and indirectly lead to the reduction of carbon emissions and, as a result, in neutralizing the effects of global warming and climate change can actively participate. The biochar route can be even more powerful than the bioenergy route in terms of carbon reduction targets. In line with these facts, this review tries to study biochar, its production by slow thermal decomposition biochar, and its diverse applications to reduce climate change and ecosystem stability. Also, the applications of biochar such as carbon sequestration, soil strengthening, and reducing pollutants are technically and environmentally discussed. Biochar's adaptability is consistent with sustainable development goals, making it a valuable tool for tackling global challenges such as climate change, soil degradation, and pollution control. Through the process of pyrolyzing residues and producing biochar, it is possible to avoid cumulative emissions of 66–130 billion metric tons of CO2 equivalent over a century. Approximately 50 % of these avoided emissions result from the long-term carbon sequestration capabilities of biochar. Additionally, 30 % of the reductions come from substituting fossil fuels with pyrolysis-derived energy, while the remaining 20 % arise from the prevention of methane and nitrous oxide emissions. Reflecting its growing significance, the biochar industry, valued at approximately USD 541.8 million in 2023, is poised for remarkable growth. Projected to expand at an impressive annual rate of 13.9 % from 2024 to 2030.
