Title: An enhanced multi-criteria decision-making approach oriented to sustainability analysis of building facades: A case study of Barcelona
Authors: Golshid Gilani, S. M. Amin Hosseini, Oriol Pons, Albert de la Fuente
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Building Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2022.104630
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4280509288

Abstract:
As one of the main and largest components, facades make a determining contribution to the sustainability performance of the whole building. Thus, selecting the optimal wall system is a key challenge for designers, especially on multi-material facades. To meet the requirements (i.e., cost, energy performance, aesthetics, maintainability) determined by stakeholders (i.e., client, authorities, designers), this selection involves many variables, several of which are subjective and uncertain, leading to a challenging decision-making process. In this context, this research intended to design and calibrate a new sustainability-oriented approach for selecting multi-material facade systems, and this is the first existing model for this purpose to the authors' best knowledge. The model couples MIVES and the Knapsack algorithm to generate sets of multiple-material facades, once the boundary conditions are established, and select according to sustainability indexes. A building in Barcelona with a multi-material facade was analysed by using the proposed approach to: (1) determine the optimal combination of materials and wall systems to configure the facade, based on both local technical and legislation requirements; and (2) validate the results of the model. In this regard, the results proved that most solutions with the highest sustainability index consisted of a wall with 10 cm concrete panel, 4 cm Rockwool insulation, 7 cm interior Rockwool insulation, and 2 layers of gypsum board. This was the combination implemented for the building object in the study case. The model can be adapted to different boundary conditions, regional regulations and stakeholders’ preferences. This approach is being introduced within Barcelona Council to analyse the sustainability of existing facades for the purposes of renovation and new building projects.
