Title: Sustainable radiology departments: A European survey to explore radiographers’ perceptions of environmental and energy sustainability issues
Authors: Andrea Roletto, Diego Catania, Louise Rainford, Alexandre Almeida Del Savio, Moreno Zanardo, Giuseppe Roberto Bonfitto, Simone Zanoni
Year: 2024
Venue: Radiography
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radi.2024.06.022
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400539229

Abstract:
INTRODUCTION: emissions caused by staff travel. This study aims to investigate radiographers' perception and knowledge of environmental sustainability issues. METHODS: An online survey was created and distributed to European radiographers and therapeutic radiographers. The survey questions (n = 43) include demographic data; questions on their perceptions and actions regarding environmental sustainability in healthcare, energy consumption, emissions from staff travel, waste generation from radiological procedures; the role of radiographers in addressing sustainability issues within their departments. RESULTS: A total of 253 responses were collected from 27 European countries. About their perception on sustainability issues, most participants considered environmental sustainability in healthcare as very important. According to 63.6% (n = 161) of respondents, the energy consumption of radiological equipment is the major source of environmental footprints from radiology activities. Additionally, 44.7% (n = 113) believe that conducting diagnostic examinations remotely could reduce environmental footprints from staff commuting About their actions at workplace, over 70% (n = 192) reported turning off devices after use. Attention to waste recycling is high, but limited to paper, plastic and glass. Contrast agents recycling procedures are implemented by 13% (n = 33). The absence or unawareness of environmental sustainability procedures in the workplace was reported by 66% (n = 167). Radiographers could play an active role in environmental sustainability programs for 243 (96.1%) participants. CONCLUSION: This study provides a comprehensive overview of European radiographers' knowledge and perceptions concerning environmental sustainability issues. While radiographers recognize the importance of a green radiology department, significant gaps remain in their understanding of eco-friendly initiatives in radiology units' activities. IMPLICATION FOR PRACTICE: Enhancing radiographers' skills with sustainability expertise could promote a greener culture within radiology departments.
