Title: Design thinking for sustainable development: A bibliometric analysis and case study research
Authors: Walter Leal Filho, Iris Schmidberger, Ayyoob Sharifi, Valeria Ruiz Vargas, Izabela Simon Rampasso, Thais Dibbern, Olena Liakh, Yusuf A. Aina, Laís Viera Trevisan, Marcellus Forh Mbah, Rosley Anholon, Valerija Kozlova
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Cleaner Production
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2024.142285
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394989948

Abstract:
This paper describes the role of Design Thinking (DT) in the context of sustainable development (SD), based on a perceived research need to identify the features which may characterise its deployment, and identify ways via which it may be optimised, especially in the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). The main goal of this study is to examine the connection between DT and SD and showcase examples of what has been done to deploy it, using real-case situations. From a methodological perspective, the paper deploys a set of two methods: bibliometric analysis and case studies. Among other findings, the paper shows that DT can be used to help implement the UN SDGs by providing an approach that emphasises human-centred design. This includes identifying problems, creating user-friendly solutions, and testing them in order to ensure that they are effective. Also, by using DT, companies, organisations, and governments can create low-cost, high-impact, and sustainable solutions to help achieve SDGs such as SDG8, SDG9, SDG12, and SDG13, among others. Overall, DT provides a framework for combining creative and analytical reasoning, specific mindsets, and diverse hands-on tools and techniques to improve critical thinking abilities towards sustainability challenges. The novelty of the paper relies on the fact that the combined use of the two methods allowed the identification of some useful features of DT, which may facilitate its deployment in sustainability contexts. This may assist future studies since it provides a theoretical basis for the field.
