Title: Advances and developments in high strength geopolymer concrete for sustainable construction – A review
Authors: V. S. Sujitha, S. Kanaga Suba Raja, Maher Ali Rusho, Simon Yishak
Year: 2025
Venue: Case Studies in Construction Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cscm.2025.e04669
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4409451850

Abstract:
The need for environmentally friendly building materials inspired research on alternative materials in traditional concrete. High-strength geopolymer concrete (HSGC) gained popularity as a sustainable engineering material with high early strength and great resistance to chemical assaults. The study investigated the developments in HSGC by reviewing its properties, microstructure, durability, types, qualities, and specific applications. The incorporation of rice husk ash, fly ash, slag, and natural pozzolanas in geopolymer concrete resulted in a denser microstructure, improved strength, temperature stability, and greater binding strength. The study examined the current cutting-edge research emphasis by including the most significant publishing sources, keywords, and literature on geopolymer concrete. The influence of geopolymer concrete on environmental effects was also discussed. The development and optimization of geopolymer concrete mixtures were discussed, focusing on the selection of raw materials, activators, and curing methods to achieve high-strength characteristics. The study provides a comprehensive review of the latest advancements in HSGC, with a unique focus on the synergistic effects of incorporating various industrial by-products, which contribute to improved microstructure, strength, and durability. The research delves into the enhancement techniques such as the use of nanomaterials, fibers, and advanced chemical additives. The study enabled reviewing important gap studies that need to be tackled to optimize HSGC for large scale application, and thus becomes a valuable resource for sustaining construction materials.
