Title: The Application of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi as Microbial Biostimulant, Sustainable Approaches in Modern Agriculture
Authors: Wenli Sun, Mohamad Hesam Shahrajabian
Year: 2023
Venue: Plants
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/plants12173101
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386285261

Abstract:
Biostimulant application can be considered an effective, practical, and sustainable nutritional crop supplementation and may lessen the environmental problems related to excessive fertilization. Biostimulants provide beneficial properties to plants by increasing plant metabolism, which promotes crop yield and improves the quality of crops; protecting plants against environmental stresses such as water shortage, soil salinization, and exposure to sub-optimal growth temperatures; and promoting plant growth via higher nutrient uptake. Other important benefits include promoting soil enzymatic and microbial activities, changing the architecture of roots, increasing the solubility and mobility of micronutrients, and enhancing the fertility of the soil, predominantly by nurturing the development of complementary soil microbes. Biostimulants are classified as microbial, such as arbuscular mycorrhizae fungi (AMF), plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR), non-pathogenic fungi, protozoa, and nematodes, or non-microbial, such as seaweed extract, phosphite, humic acid, other inorganic salts, chitin and chitosan derivatives, protein hydrolysates and free amino acids, and complex organic materials. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are among the most prominent microbial biostimulants and have an important role in cultivating better, healthier, and more functional foods in sustainable agriculture. AMF assist plant nutrient and water acquisition; enhance plant stress tolerance against salinity, drought, and heavy metals; and reduce soil erosion. AMF are proven to be a sustainable and environmentally friendly source of crop supplements. The current manuscript gives many examples of the potential of biostimulants for the production of different crops. However, further studies are needed to better understand the effectiveness of different biostimulants in sustainable agriculture. The review focuses on how AMF application can overcome nutrient limitations typical of organic systems by improving nutrient availability, uptake, and assimilation, consequently reducing the gap between organic and conventional yields. The aim of this literature review is to survey the impacts of AMF by presenting case studies and successful paradigms in different crops as well as introducing the main mechanisms of action of the different biostimulant products.
