Title: Sustainability assessment of rooftop solar photovoltaic systems: A case study
Authors: Satyajit Malode, Ravi Prakash, J. C. Mohanta
Year: 2024
Venue: Environmental Impact Assessment Review
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eiar.2024.107609
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400965653

Abstract:
The study combined conventional life cycle assessment (LCA) with energy benefit and economic feasibility analysis for a 1 MW rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) system. The study analyzed two solar PV system scenarios: in Case 1, the solar PV system was connected directly to the college's internal grid, while in Case 2, it was integrated with a battery storage system. The environmental impact was assessed in terms of global warming (GWp) and other impact indicators using the ReCiPe (H) midpoint and endpoint methodology. The study found a 73% increase in GWp , a 739% increase in mineral resource scarcity, and an increase in all toxicity indicators observed in Case 2, primarily due to battery utilization. Endpoint impact indicators also increased, affecting human health, ecosystems, and resources. The study also evaluated the energy benefits using energy payback time (EPBT) and energy return on investment (EROI), as well as the economic feasibility using the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE). The EPBT increased from 3.71 years in Case 1 to 6.74 years in Case 2, while the EROI decreased from 5.38 in Case 1 to 2.96 in Case 2, indicating a reduced energy feasibility with the battery storage system. Additionally, the LCOE increased from 3.17 Rs/kWh to 16.96 Rs/kWh in Case 2, primarily due to the high cost of the battery and its replacement. This study shows that converting solar power to firm power in the current scenario has a higher environmental, energy, and economic impact. • Solar PV systems play a key role in cleaner power generation, leading to large-scale installations. • Solar PV systems have their own environmental, energy, and economic consequences. • The integration of battery storage systems increases impacts when converting solar power to firm power. • Life cycle assessment, combined with energy and economic analysis, provide a holistic approach to assessing sustainability.
