Title: A shift to green cybersecurity sustainability development: Using triple bottom-line sustainability assessment in Qatar transportation sector
Authors: Khalifa AL-Dosari, Noora Fetais, Murat Küçükvar
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Sustainable Transportation
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/15568318.2023.2171321
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4318822237

Abstract:
Green cybersecurity is the emerging trend in the new era and this green cybersecurity technology minimizes the negative effects of IT operations and implements a green sustainable environment. Therefore, the study conceptually draws the concept of green cybersecurity by applying the theory of reasoned action (TRA) assumptions that logically support green information technology acceptance. Using a convenient sampling, the data were collected from Qatar transport industries, particularly the IT experts and managers, to get responses on the implementation of green cybersecurity and sustainability of 5 transport companies in Doha, Qatar. Using Smart PLS-SEM, the study employed the SEM technique to test the proposed hypotheses. The results reported that green cybersecurity’s control/position, integrity, and authenticity significantly and positively influenced TBL sustainability, but confidentiality, availability, and utility do not. The implementation of industry 4.0 makes them accessible and more effective to ensure TBL sustainable development in the transport industries in Qatar. Applying green cybersecurity in this setting will improve services in transportation sector. A green cybersecurity platform will make it a point to systematically search for and promote innovations made possible by smart green technologies to avoid carbon-emission vehicles. Through the efficient and cutting-edge green, cybersecurity will be Qatar’s transportation sector’s primary responsibility to contribute to Qatar’s sustainable development. In order to accomplish this goal, the regulator must create and implement it. In addition, it emphasizes the importance of adopting green cybersecurity to confront the difficulties facing city transportation all over Qatar as a foundational component of achieving long-term sustainable development.
