Title: Potential of Stimuli-Responsive In Situ Gel System for Sustained Ocular Drug Delivery: Recent Progress and Contemporary Research
Authors: Manisha Pandey, Hira Choudhury, Azila Abdul Aziz, Subrat Kumar Bhattamisra, Bapi Gorain, Jocelyn Sziou Ting Su, Choo Leey Tan, Woon Yee Chin, Khar Yee Yip
Year: 2021
Venue: Polymers
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/polym13081340
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3155518605

Abstract:
Eyesight is one of the most well-deserved blessings, amid all the five senses in the human body. It captures the raw signals from the outside world to create detailed visual images, granting the ability to witness and gain knowledge about the world. Eyes are exposed directly to the external environment; they are susceptible to the vicissitudes of diseases. The World Health Organization has predicted that the number of individuals affected by eye diseases will rise enormously in the next decades. However, the physical barriers of the eyes and the problems associated with conventional ocular formulations are significant challenges in ophthalmic drug development. This has generated the demand for a sustained ocular drug delivery system, which serves to deliver effective drug concentration at a reduced frequency for consistent therapeutic effect and better patient treatment adherence. Recent advancement in pharmaceutical dosage design has demonstrated that a stimuli-responsive in situ gel system exhibits the favorable characteristics for providing sustained ocular drug delivery and enhanced ocular bioavailability. Stimuli-responsive in situ gels undergo a phase transition (solution-gelation) in response to the ocular environmental temperature, pH, and ions. These stimuli transform the formulation into a gel at the cul de sac to overcome the shortcomings of conventional eye drops, such as rapid nasolacrimal drainage and short contact time with the ocular surface This review highlights the recent successful research outcomes of stimuli-responsive in situ gelling systems in treating in vivo models with glaucoma and various ocular infections. Additionally, it also presents the mechanism, recent development, and safety considerations of stimuli-sensitive in situ gel as the potential sustained ocular delivery system for treating common eye disorders.
