Title: A novel resilient and sustainable supplier selection model based on D-AHP and DEMATEL methods
Authors: Seda Hatice Gökler, Semra Boran
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Engineering Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jer.2023.07.015
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385496606

Abstract:
The natural disasters that cause a sudden violent change in the earth and the disruptions made by humans disrupt operations in the supply chain, causing negative influences such as lost productivity, revenue, competitive advantage, and profitability for the company. Therefore, suppliers need to be capable of being resilient to any disruption and providing sustainable supply. Supplier selection is a multi criteria decision making (MCDM) problem that allows suppliers to evaluate different and often conflicting qualitative and quantitative criteria. Both resilient and sustainable supplier selection problems contain many qualitative criteria. Experts make subjective judgments based on qualitative criteria in the decision-making process. The D number is a method used to find an efficient and feasible solution to uncertain information. In this paper, the DAHP method, which integrates the traditional Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method and the D numbers, is used for the resilient and sustainable supplier selection problem. The Decision Making Trial and Evaluation Laboratory (DEMATEL) method is integrated into DAHP to determine criteria and subcriteria weights. The proposed integrated DAHP-DEMATEL model is implemented in an automobile manufacturing company to demonstrate the effectiveness of the method. The Triantaphyllou method is applied to perform sensitivity analysis. The traditional AHP-DEMATEL hybrid method was applied to the same problem, and sensitivity analysis was performed. The sensitivity analysis results of the hybrid method were compared with the results of the applied AHP-DEMATEL method. It can be said that the proposed model is less affected by subjective evaluations and is a robust method.
