Title: On the contribution of concentrated solar power (CSP) to the sustainable development goals (SDGs): A bibliometric analysis
Authors: Bashria A.A. Yousef, Khaled Obaideen, Maryam Nooman AlMallahi, Noura Alajmi, Ali Radwan, Sameh Al‐Shihabi, Mahmoud Elgendi
Year: 2024
Venue: Energy Strategy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2024.101356
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392935872

Abstract:
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations create global awareness, political responsibility, enhanced measurements, and social feedback by organizing these priorities into seventeen goals and defining measurable time-bound targets. SDG7, “Affordable and Clean Energy,” aims to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all. Therefore, renewable energy is crucial for achieving the SDGs by providing sustainable, clean, affordable energy solutions. This study aims to identify the scientific production and its evolution related to concentrated solar power (CSP) and provide an overview of system hybridization towards accessing their role in achieving the SDGs. The study analyzes recent publications on hybrid CSP over the past decade using bibliometric analysis. The findings reveal that hybrid CSP systems directly and indirectly contribute to the SDGs. For example, hybrid CSP power is directly related to SDGs 7 Affordable and Clean Energy, 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities, and 12 Responsible Consumption and Production. In contrast, cooling applications are indirectly connected to SDGs 1, No Poverty, and 3, Good Health and Wellbeing. The study also highlights the increasing trend of publications on CSP, with the year 2020 marking the highest point. China has the highest number of publications on hybrid CSP, followed by the USA, Italy, the UK, Spain, and France. This study highlights the potential benefits of CSP hybridization in achieving sustainable development goals and emphasizes the need to fully address the challenges of implementing these systems.
