Title: Mapping the Sustainable Development in Health Tourism: A Systematic Literature Review
Authors: Natália Figueiredo, José Luís Abrantes, Sandra Costa
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16051901
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392163135

Abstract:
Health tourism is recognised as a growing industry. Therefore, sustainable development in health tourism is crucial not only for the well-being of patients but also for destinations and communities. In this sense, sustainable development in health tourism aims to develop solutions related to the environmental, social, and economic challenges faced by the country and the tourism sector. After the COVID-19 pandemic, health tourism has become popular, and despite the increase in research related to the theme, the existing literature is still relatively fragmented and lacks a comprehensive view. This study addresses this gap by investigating sustainable development in health tourism through a systematic literature review. Ninety-three articles were collected from the Web of Science database. After subjecting them to bibliometric analysis, it is possible to examine the topic’s current state of the art. This research permits the systematisation of the existing literature into five areas: (1) stakeholders of sustainable tourism, (2) impact of COVID-19, (3) health tourism, (4) challenges and opportunities, and (5) sustainability values. This research provides significant contributions to the field of sustainable development in health tourism. Firstly, it sheds light on aspects that previous literature has examined, offering valuable insights into the drivers of sustainable development in health tourism, thus enriching our comprehension of the subject. Additionally, the article delineates a prospective research agenda, suggesting various directions that can lay the foundation for upcoming inquiries and the development of pertinent theories for assessing the impact of sustainable development in health tourism.
