Title: Intuitionistic fuzzy Sugeno-Weber decision framework for sustainable digital security assessment
Authors: Abrar Hussain, Kifayat Ullah, Dragan Pamučar, Vladimir Šimić
Year: 2024
Venue: Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2024.109085
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401409410

Abstract:
Protecting digital data, systems, and networks from harmful activity and illegal access is known as digital security, sometimes referred to as cybersecurity or information security. It includes several steps meant to keep networks, systems, and digital assets safe from hackers, illegal access, and data breaches. To understand the reliability and effectiveness of digital protection, we investigate an advanced decision algorithm to identify vague and unclear information about human opinion. To serve this purpose, an intuitionistic fuzzy set is a potent approach for handling uncertainty and experts' judgments about the decision analysis process. The prioritized aggregation operators are used to fuse redundant information into a single term based on different preferences about characteristics or criteria. In this article, the authors formulated some dominant operational laws of Sugeno-Weber triangular norms in the presence of intuitionistic fuzzy information. These operational laws have an extensive capability to achieve authentic and smooth aggregated results during the aggregation process. To identify an ideal solution of an alternative, we developed mathematical methodologies by combing two different theories of Sugeno-Weber triangular norms and an intuitionistic fuzzy context such as intuitionistic fuzzy Sugeno-Weber prioritized geometric (IFSWPrG) and intuitionistic fuzzy Sugeno-Weber prioritized weighted geometric (IFSWPrWG) operators. Some realistic properties and characteristics are also demonstrated to highlight the versatility and effectiveness of derived approaches. We also established a multi-attribute decision-making (MADM) technique by considering derived mathematical methodologies and an intuitionistic fuzzy scenario. By utilizing an algorithm of the MADM problem, we explore a case study to evaluate a suitable digital security technique based on prominent characteristics.
