Title: Sustainable development of green reverse logistics based on blockchain
Authors: Jinshun Wu
Year: 2022
Venue: Energy Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2022.08.219
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4296119406

Abstract:
With the continuous convenience of life, logistics has become an indispensable existence in life. Logistics application, such as the southern banana transportation to the country, major cities can buy all the year round; Xinjiang ha honey melon, Ningxia white orchid melon, northeast rice, Tianjin small station rice are not seasonal supply market. However, with the increasing frequency of logistics activities, its damage to natural resources and ecological environment is becoming more and more serious. The waste produced in logistics is increasing day by day, which puts great pressure on the environment. Such as steel slag, industrial waste water, waste computers, waste batteries and other kinds of inorganic waste. Goods return is the most important activity in the green reverse logistics. Because reverse logistics is a kind of logistics activity including product return, logistics replacement, item reuse, waste disposal, reprocessing, repair and remanufacturing and other processes. Returns are the key part of it. In order to ensure the goods, return to the manufacturer and get good disposal, it is necessary to record the whole process information of the goods from the factory to the customer. Blockchain is a chain composed of one block after another. Each block holds certain information in each block, which are connected into chains in their respective chronological order. Based on this, this paper proposes a sustainable development strategy of green reverse logistics based on blockchain. In the strategy research, based on the characteristics of decentralization, non-tampering and high information security of blockchain technology(BT), this paper proposes a commodity traceability scheme based on blockchain. In this traceability scheme, this paper uses the structure of Merkel tree to design a license chain to store detailed commodity traceability information, and stores the Merkel tree root node of the license chain block in the public chain, forming a “double chain” structure of commodity traceability system. The simulation analysis shows that the traceability information stored in the license chain can use the high security of the public chain to ensure the security of information. Compared with the traditional blockchain, the double chain structure designed in the article, has a larger throughput, which can trace the source of the product to the manufacturer, ensure that the goods can be returned to the manufacturer for further processing, reduce the generation of waste in the logistics, and provide a guarantee for promoting the sustainable development of green reverse logistics.
