Title: A systematic review on utilization of biodiesel-derived crude glycerol in sustainable polymers preparation
Authors: Hong Wang, Hongpeng Li, Chee Keong Lee, Noreen Suliani Mat Nanyan, G. S. Tay
Year: 2024
Venue: International Journal of Biological Macromolecules
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.129536
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391179568

Abstract:
With the rapid development of biodiesel, biodiesel-derived glycerol has become a promising renewable bioresource. The key to utilizing this bioresource lies in the value-added conversion of crude glycerol. While purifying crude glycerol into a pure form allows for diverse applications, the intricate nature of this process renders it costly and environmentally stressful. Consequently, technology facilitating the direct utilization of unpurified crude glycerol holds significant importance. It has been reported that crude glycerol can be bio-transformed or chemically converted into high-value polymers. These technologies provide cost-effective alternatives for polymer production while contributing to a more sustainable biodiesel industry. This review article describes the global production and quality characteristics of biodiesel-derived glycerol and investigates the influencing factors and treatment of the composition of crude glycerol including water, methanol, soap, matter organic non-glycerol, and ash. Additionally, this review also focused on the advantages and challenges of various technologies for converting crude glycerol into polymers, considering factors such as the compatibility of crude glycerol and the control of unfavorable factors. Lastly, the application prospect and value of crude glycerol conversion were discussed from the aspects of economy and environmental protection. The development of new technologies for the increased use of crude glycerol as a renewable feedstock for polymer production will be facilitated by the findings of this review, while promoting mass market applications.
