Title: Microalgae Polysaccharides: An Alternative Source for Food Production and Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Juliana Botelho Moreira, Bruna da Silva Vaz, Bruna Barcelos Cardias, Camila Gonzales Cruz, Ana Claudia Araujo de Almeida, Jorge Alberto Vieira Costa, Michele Greque de Morais
Year: 2022
Venue: Polysaccharides
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/polysaccharides3020027
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4282561849

Abstract:
Carbohydrates or polysaccharides are the main products derived from photosynthesis and carbon fixation in the Calvin cycle. Compared to other sources, polysaccharides derived from microalgae are safe, biocompatible, biodegradable, stable, and versatile. These polymeric macromolecules present complex biochemical structures according to each microalgal species. In addition, they exhibit emulsifying properties and biological characteristics that include antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, and antimicrobial activities. Some microalgal species have a naturally high concentration of carbohydrates. Other species can adapt their metabolism to produce more sugars from changes in temperature and light, carbon source, macro and micronutrient limitations (mainly nitrogen), and saline stress. In addition to growing in adverse conditions, microalgae can use industrial effluents as an alternative source of nutrients. Microalgal polysaccharides are predominantly composed of pentose and hexose monosaccharide subunits with many glycosidic bonds. Microalgae polysaccharides can be structural constituents of the cell wall, energy stores, or protective polysaccharides and cell interaction. The industrial use of microalgae polysaccharides is on the rise. These microorganisms present rheological and biological properties, making them a promising candidate for application in the food industry and agriculture. Thus, microalgae polysaccharides are promising sustainable alternatives for potential applications in several sectors, and the choice of producing microalgal species depends on the required functional activity. In this context, this review article aims to provide an overview of microalgae technology for polysaccharide production, emphasizing its potential in the food, animal feed, and agriculture sector.
