Title: Green Composites Based on Animal Fiber and Their Applications for a Sustainable Future
Authors: Guravtar Singh Mann, Naved Azum, Anish Khan, Malik Abdul Rub, Md. Imtaiyaz Hassan, Kisa Fatima, Abdullah M. Asiri
Year: 2023
Venue: Polymers
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/polym15030601
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4317933155

Abstract:
Global climate change is already affecting the environment, as glaciers are receding, ice on rivers and lakes is melting, plant and animal range`s have altering, and trees are blooming early. Therefore, focus has shifted towards sustainable materials. There is a growing desire for materials that have a unique combination of qualities that metals, polymers, and other materials cannot provide, therefore scientists are turning their focus to green composites. Green composites offer a wide range of uses in automotive, aerospace, and marine applications. Composites are multiphase resources with separate interfaces that contain chemically different materials. Composites are made up of a variety of materials that are distinct in nature, and they give a set of desirable features that are superior to those of their predecessors or parents. Natural fibers are less expensive, more readily available, rust-resistant, plentiful, nontoxic, and safe for human skin, eyes, and respiratory systems. Green composites are created by combining renewable fibers with polymers (matrix) to create a new class of composites known as "green composites." This review includes studies on various animal-based fibers and their applications. In this article, recent advancements in the field of these fibers and their composites of fibers are also discussed. The physical, chemical, and mechanical properties are also discussed in this paper. Moreover, the benefits and drawbacks of using these fibers are also discussed in detail. Finally, the paper gives an outline of the topic. The results from composites constructed from each fiber are provided, along with appropriate references for more in-depth analysis studies. This review is specially performed to strengthen the knowledge bank of the young researchers working in the field of natural composites.
