Title: The role of green education in achieving the sustainable development goals: A review
Authors: Adenike A. Akinsemolu, Helen Onyeaka
Year: 2024
Venue: Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2024.115239
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4405564731

Abstract:
Sustainable development has become a core part of all day-to-day activities and considerations because of the critical role it plays in determining the future. This research explores the potential contribution of green education in achieving the sustainable development goals. To achieve this objective, this study relied on a narrative/traditional literature review as the methodology. Drawing on recent research, the review established that green education plays an influential role in achievement of sustainable development goals in several ways. A synthesis of the findings of multiple studies on the relationship between green education and sustainability reveals that the main contribution of green education to achieving these goals is through societal and behavioral change, which is achieved through the universal inculcation of climate change awareness. Consequently, this study concludes that green education could play a stronger role in attainment of sustainable development goals. However, securing this role will be difficult because of vast environmental and climatic changes that are anticipated in the future. To this end, impediments that minimize educational impact are also discussed in this research, along with proposed lessons on the way forward and the implications for future research in this area. • Green education uses participatory methods to teach sustainability and empower learners for a sustainable future. • Green education boosts SDGs by enhancing health, learning, energy efficiency, and job creation. • Green education impacts sustainability, including green consumption and renewable energy awareness. • Green education advances SDGs through formal integration, behaviour change, and multidisciplinary approaches
