Title: Safety and tolerability of semaglutide across the SUSTAIN and PIONEER phase IIIa clinical trial programmes
Authors: Vanita R. Aroda, Umut Erhan, Peter Jelnes, Juris J. Meier, Morten T. Abildlund, Richard E. Pratley, Tina Vilsbøll, Mansoor Husain
Year: 2023
Venue: Diabetes Obesity and Metabolism
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/dom.14990
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4318168210

Abstract:
AIM: Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists improve glycaemic control: some are now available as oral and subcutaneous formulations, and some have indications for reducing cardiovascular risk. The expanded scope for these therapies warrants comprehensive safety evaluations. We report the safety/tolerability of subcutaneous and oral semaglutide from the SUSTAIN and PIONEER clinical trial programmes, respectively. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adverse events (AEs) from 16 randomized placebo- or active-controlled phase IIIa trials in patients with type 2 diabetes (n = 11 159) including once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide (n = 3150; SUSTAIN trials) or once-daily oral semaglutide (n = 4116; PIONEER trials) were analysed. Data pools were analysed for each programme, with separate analyses of cardiovascular outcomes trials (CVOTs; n = 6480). RESULTS: In the phase IIIa pools, gastrointestinal disorders were reported in 41.9%/39.1% of patients with subcutaneous/oral semaglutide, respectively (most prevalent during initiation/escalation) versus 22.0%/24.8% with comparators. Rates of kidney disorders, acute pancreatitis, malignant neoplasms, hypoglycaemia, diabetic retinopathy, heart failure and other cardiovascular events were similar for semaglutide versus comparators. Cholelithiasis incidence was higher with subcutaneous and oral semaglutide versus placebo. Diabetic retinopathy incidence was higher with subcutaneous semaglutide versus placebo in SUSTAIN 6. Small pulse rate increases occurred with both formulations; there was no increased rate of arrhythmias. Fatal AE incidence was similar between semaglutide and comparators. Versus placebo, CVOTs showed a reduced risk of major adverse cardiovascular events with subcutaneous semaglutide and non-inferiority criteria were met with oral semaglutide. CONCLUSIONS: The most common AEs with semaglutide were gastrointestinal disorders, which decreased with continued therapy. These comprehensive safety/tolerability data may better inform patient selection and guidance in care.
