Title: Sustainable Education and Digitalization through the Prism of the COVID-19 Pandemic
Authors: Larisa Gorina, Marina Gordova, I. V. Khristoforova, Ludmila A. Sundeeva, Wadim Striełkowski
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15086846
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4366422199

Abstract:
Our paper discusses how sustainable education has evolved at higher education institutions (HEIs) during the COVID-19 pandemic by embracing digitalization and novel technologies. In addition, it describes the innovative methods for integrating technology into professional education during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. We evaluate the global practices and fundamental changes in the sphere of higher education, particularly regarding sustainable education and digitalization. The paper aims at describing the challenges faced by higher education institutions in adopting sustainable education and digitalization, as well as the opportunities for growth and innovation that have arisen due to the pandemic. Our methods include the empirical model, which assesses the acceptance and usage of novel digital technologies for promoting sustainable education by university professors and academic researchers in four major Russian cities (Moscow, Krasnodar, Kazan, and Saint Petersburg) during the COVID-19 pandemic. The results of the model reveal the significance of implementing sustainability in the classroom, which could bring positive outcomes to both students and teachers. Our study provides a valuable resource for educators seeking techniques, models, and practical advice to overcome the obstacles of teaching in a digitally connected learning environment in Russia and beyond. Specifically, we propose that the primary focus of digitalizing professional education should be on teachers and instructors who are enthusiastic about leveraging technology for learning and who are familiar with novel digital technologies. It appears that digital technologies are capable of transforming teaching practices for sustainable education and economic development.
