Title: Planetary health and sustainability teaching in UK medical education: A review of medical school curricula
Authors: James Bevan, Rachel Blyth, Benjamin Russell, Lydia Holtgrewe, Annie Hoi Ching Cheung, Isobel Austin, Viraj Shah, Megan Butler, Simon Fraser, Vinci Pabellan, Serena Shoker, Annachiara Corriero, Pat Lok, Karolina Wieczorek, Zofia Przypasniak, Jessica Boydell, A. Cathlyn Farrow, Poppy Gibson, Eve Miller, Yuqing Chen, Thomas Scrivin, Humairaa Ismail, Simone Barnes, Amy Thie, Nakul Chohan, Laura Waller, Alice Barnes Yallowley, Ewan Tait, Aaron Yip, Maria Mantova, Maxine Russi, Francesca Vasey, Alannah Ball-Wood, Manisha Bumma, Alzahra Kassir, H Joels, Lara MacFayden, Tala Musallam Awaineh, Ishaan Singh, Rhiannon Wells, Shane O’Hara
Year: 2022
Venue: Medical Teacher
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/0142159x.2022.2152190
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4311206023

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: The doctors of the future need to be empowered to deliver healthcare sustainably while protecting their patients' health in the context of a degrading environment. This study aimed to objectively review the extent and nature of the teaching of planetary health and sustainability topics in UK medical education. METHODS: A multi-centre national review of the timetabled teaching sessions in medical courses in the UK during the academic year 2020/2021 against the General Medical Council's adopted 'Educating for Sustainable Healthcare - Priority Learning Outcomes'. Medical students were recruited and reviewed the entirety of their own institution's online teaching materials associated with core teaching sessions using a standardised data collection tool. Learning outcome coverage and estimated teaching time were calculated and used to rank participating medical schools. RESULTS: 45% of eligible UK medical schools were included in the study. The extent of teaching varied considerably amongst courses. Mean coverage of the 13 learning outcomes was 9.9 (SD:2.5) with a mean estimated teaching time of 140 min (SD:139). Courses with dedicated planetary health and sustainability sessions ranked best. CONCLUSION: There is large disparity in the education that medical students receive on these topics. Teaching may not adequately prioritise sustainability or reflect advances in planetary health knowledge.[Box: see text].
