Title: Sustaining Performance of Wheat–Rice Farms in Pakistan: The Effects of Financial Literacy and Financial Inclusion
Authors: Ali Raza, Guangji Tong, Vasilii Erokhin, Alexey Bobryshev, Lyubov Chaykovskaya, Natal'ya V. MALINOVSKAYA
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15097045
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4366828795

Abstract:
The unceasingly augmenting emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) has contributed substantially to the degradation of the key environmental parameters and the deterioration of performance of the agricultural sector globally. The food insecurity problem has been aggravated consequently. Due to a variety of economic and social issues, many farmers in developing economies use low-efficient and environmentally unfriendly agricultural practices. Adopting innovative technologies and practices linked with sustainable farming remains a complex issue across the developing world. In particular, financial exclusion and low financial literacy are commonly cited as the critical obstacles to achieving sustainable development. To contribute to resolving this development problem, the study attempts to investigate the effects of financial inclusion and literacy on establishing a sustainable performance of farms. A structured questionnaire was used to collect the data from 220 farmers within the Central Punjab region of Pakistan. Small-scale farms demonstrated a potential to sustain their performance by improving financial inclusion and financial literacy. Trust in extension services for agriculture plays a significant role in moderating the impact of eight independent variables (knowledge, skills, attitude, behavior, access, usage, quantity, welfare) on sustainable farm performance. The study implies that increased trust in financial services is essential for improving sustainable performance in the agricultural sector. The effect imposed by financial actors is crucial for establishing trust in financial services linked to sustainability within the agricultural industry.
