Title: Sustainable Mobility and the Smart City: A Vision of the City of the Future: The Case Study of Cracow (Poland)
Authors: Edyta Bielińska–Dusza, Monika Hamerska, Agnieszka Żak
Year: 2021
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en14237936
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3216354183

Abstract:
The vision of the smart city is inextricably linked with the concepts of intelligent transport, sustainable mobility and managerial decision making. Cities of the future not only entail the use of new technology, but also increasingly the interpenetration of technological and social aspects, with the simultaneous involvement of urban space users in the creation of such technologies. This provides an opportunity to introduce desired changes and create a more balanced space with a higher quality of life and improved energy efficiency. The article discusses the concepts of sustainable development and sustainable mobility with a particular emphasis on issues related to the smart city. The authors reviewed the various smart city solutions that have been implemented in the field of urban transport in Cracow, whose authorities have taken steps over the last few years to make the city smarter and more modern. The aim of the research was to assess the contribution made by smart city solutions to improving the attractiveness and reliability of public transport in Poland’s second-largest city. The undoubted added value of this analysis is the application of the Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) method to evaluate the implemented solutions. It should be pointed out that such an analysis constitutes a new approach in this area. Until now, these models have been used to assess consumer behavior. The results showed that some of the implemented intelligent solutions increase the attractiveness of public transport in Cracow, but this does not square with users’ assessment of reliability. According to users, ecological solutions have no impact on the attractiveness of public transport. Nor do conveniences such as bus lanes, giving priority to public transport vehicles at intersections, and adjusting traffic light regulation to traffic volume, have a positive impact on perceptions of public transport as a reliable means of getting around the city. The results may be of particular importance for the city’s authorities and other stakeholders engaged in strategic activities and the building of a city of the future.
