Title: A Sustainable Approach to Delivering Programmable Peer-to-Peer Offline Payments
Authors: Luca Mainetti, Matteo Aprile, Emanuele Mele, Roberto Vergallo
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/s23031336
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4317932581

Abstract:
Payment apps and digital wallets are powerful tools used to exchange e-money via the internet. However, with the progressive disappearance of cash, there is a need for the digital equivalent of physical banknotes to guarantee the same level of anonymity of private payments. Few efforts to solve the double-spending problem exist in P2P payments (i.e., in avoiding the possibility of a payer retaining copies of digital coins in absence of a trusted third party (TTP)), and further research efforts are needed to explore options to preserve the privacy of payments, as per the mandates of numerous central bank digital currency (CBDC) exploratory initiatives, such as the digital euro. Moreover, generic programmability requirements and energetic impacts should be considered. In this paper, we present a sustainable offline P2P payment scheme to face the double-spending problem by means of a one-time program (OTP) approach. The approach consists of wiping the business logic out of a client's app and allowing financial intermediaries to inject a certified payment code into the user's device, which will execute (asynchronously and offline) at the time of payment. To do so, we wrap each coin in a program at the time of withdrawal. Then the program exploits the trusted execution environment (TEE) of modern smartphones to transfer itself from the payer to the payee via a direct IoT link. To confirm the validity of the approach, we performed qualitative and quantitative evaluations, specifically focusing on the energetic sustainability of the proposed scheme. Results show that our payment scheme is energetically sustainable as the current absorbed for sending one coin is, at most, ~1.8 mAh on an Apple smartphone. We advance the state-of-the-art because the scheme meets the programmability, anonymity, and sustainability requirements (at the same time).
