Title: A Bibliometric Analysis of Sustainability and Risk Management
Authors: Haitham Nobanee, Fatima Youssef Al Hamadi, Fatma Ali Abdulaziz, Lina Subhi Abukarsh, Aysha Falah Alqahtani, Shayma Khalifa AlSubaey, Sara Mohamed Alqahtani, Hamama Abdulla Almansoori
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13063277
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3136881057

Abstract:
Sustainability practices in a working environment represent superior quality performances, while risks remain to be a challenge. Our study’s primary purpose is to deploy the bibliometric method to analyze the related literature. Bibliometric parameters analyzed using the VOSviewer software were employed to identify citations relevant to sustainability and risk contexts’ critical themes. From 1990–2020, a reflection of 1233 documents appeared in Scopus on sustainability practices and risk management. We searched the current papers, authors, institutes, and keywords on VOSviewer. The bibliometric search provided us an understanding, which reflected that the collected works on literature of sustainability and risk factors, in general, is suggestively increasing. Mainly, in our report, we highlighted six major streams, related to topics such as the moral responsibilities and sustainability development, blockchain technology and minimization of risks, social sustainability and supply chain, environmental impacts, safety engineering and risk identification, and optimization and sustainability practices. The primary purpose of using streams was to cite the key authors and their contributions to the related literature. This bibliometric analysis was developed to obtain further understanding regarding the importance of sustainability to the individual, firms, and the entire economy. Moreover, the factors associated with risk also sought to be examined to prevent or at least minimize its negative impact. It was identified in this paper that sustainability remains an issue in the global perspective that has been challenging the individual and/or the organization’s point of views. Risk factors were also identified as inevitable; hence, everyone must be socially responsible to minimize the negative impact on the economy.
