Title: Alternative Fuels for Agriculture Sustainability: Carbon Footprint and Economic Feasibility
Authors: Shivangi Mathur, Hunny Waswani, Deeksha Singh, Rajiv Ranjan
Year: 2022
Venue: AgriEngineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agriengineering4040063
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306849909

Abstract:
Agriculture is the foremost source of food for humans. Fossil fuels are typically used to operate farm machines, contributing to carbon emissions and accelerating climate change. It is possible to mitigate environmental damage by promoting renewable or alternative fuels, namely biofuels, solar energy, biomass, wind, geothermal, small-scale hydro, and wave power. Biofuels are considered as low carbon-emitting alternatives to conventional fuels. The use of biofuels promotes reduced emissions of greenhouse gases and reduces the related detrimental impact of transport. As an alternative to fossil fuels, renewable fuels seem to present a promising scenario. However, if low carbon products are promoted, analysis of each particular product’s GHG emissions and carbon footprint (CF) is needed. Nowadays, CF is considered as the prime indicator of environmental impact, and its calculation is in utmost demand. Agriculture significantly benefits from the use of renewable resources. The carbon footprint measurement has the potential to assess and compare carbon emissions generated by agricultural products and to identify points for improving environmental performance. Several studies have compared alternative fuels with conventional fuels, and it has been proven that using alternative fuels can significantly reduce traditional fuel consumption. Bioenergy includes a number of socio- economic, technical as well as environmental benefits that helps in achieving the UN sustainable development goals (SDG). The aim to end malnutrition and hunger (SDG 2) requires a sustainable system for food production as well as resilient agriculture practices to improve agricultural productivity. The revenues from bioenergy projects can provide food and a better diet for small farming communities, thereby improving their quality of life. The present review aims to provide a comprehensive outlook of the role of alternative or biofuels in the agriculture sector, in terms of economic feasibility and carbon footprint, for sustainable development. This review also discusses the various generations of biofuels in attaining carbon neutrality, biofuel’s impact on the environment, applications in agriculture, and limitations.
