Title: Rough sets based Ordinal Priority Approach to evaluate sustainable development goals (SDGs) for sustainable mining
Authors: Muhammet Deveci, Pablo R. Brito‐Parada, Dragan Pamučar, Emmanouil Α. Varouchakis
Year: 2022
Venue: Resources Policy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2022.103049
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306666299

Abstract:
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been adopted by countries and companies, including mining companies around the world. The aim of this study is to investigate the degree of importance of the seventeen sustainable development goals (SDGs) on sustainable mining using a rough sets based decision making approach. This novel approach consists of three consecutive stages, namely a questionnaire (survey), data analyses, and SDGs classification. Firstly, a survey is conducted to receive a response from internationally experts across different countries. Each participant is asked to evaluate the importance of each SDG. Secondly, the analyses are carried out to make a distinction among groups of participants who respond similarly and discover viewpoints from the industry, academia, and non-governmental organizations. Finally, the degree of importance of each SDG for sustainable mining is found using a novel decision making approach including Ordinal Priority Approach (OPA) based on rough sets. The survey of the results indicated that for all the participants of the survey, independently of their background, the most important SDG for sustainable mining was “SDG8: Decent work and economic growth”, while the one perceived as the least important was “SDG14: Life below water”. The main objective of SDG8 is to promote economic growth through job opportunities and decent work for all. This in turn leads to a more sustainable, long-term economic growth. While all SDGs play an important role, the proposed rough sets based decision making method provided a rational and objective evaluation performance of their perceived priority in the mining sector.
