Title: Join the green team: Inducers of plant immunity in the plant disease sustainable control toolbox
Authors: Feng Zhu, Mengyao Cao, Qiping Zhang, Rajinikanth Mohan, Jacob Schar, Michaela Mitchell, Huan Chen, Fengquan Liu, Daowen Wang, Zheng Qing Fu
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Advanced Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2023.04.016
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4367692922

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Crops are constantly attacked by various pathogens. These pathogenic microorganisms, such as fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, and nematodes, threaten global food security by causing detrimental crop diseases that generate tremendous quality and yield losses worldwide. Chemical pesticides have undoubtedly reduced crop damage; however, in addition to increasing the cost of agricultural production, the extensive use of chemical pesticides comes with environmental and social costs. Therefore, it is necessary to vigorously develop sustainable disease prevention and control strategies to promote the transition from traditional chemical control to modern green technologies. Plants possess sophisticated and efficient defense mechanisms against a wide range of pathogens naturally. Immune induction technology based on plant immunity inducers can prime plant defense mechanisms and greatly decrease the occurrence and severity of plant diseases. Reducing the use of agrochemicals is an effective way to minimize environmental pollution and promote agricultural safety. AIM OF REVIEW: The purpose of this workis to offer valuable insights into the current understanding and future research perspectives of plant immunity inducers and their uses in plant disease control, ecological and environmental protection, and sustainable development of agriculture. KEY SCIENTIFIC CONCEPTS OF REVIEW: In this work, we have introduced the concepts of sustainable and environment-friendly concepts of green disease prevention and control technologies based on plant immunity inducers. This article comprehensively summarizes these recent advances, emphasizes the importance of sustainable disease prevention and control technologies for food security, and highlights the diverse functions of plant immunity inducers-mediated disease resistance. The challenges encountered in the potential applications of plant immunity inducers and future research orientation are also discussed.
