Title: Artificial Intelligence Technologies as Smart Solutions for Sustainable Protected Areas Management
Authors: Ahmet Atalay, Dalia Perkumienė, Larbi Safaa, Mindaugas Škėma, Marius Aleinikovas
Year: 2025
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su17115006
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4410858606

Abstract:
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming not only an auxiliary tool, but also one of the main factors helping to shape natural resource management models. The application of artificial intelligence in protected areas allows for a transition to more sustainable management of protected areas. By applying artificial intelligence technologies, it is possible not only to respond to changes or violations that have already occurred but also to more effectively predict potential threats, form long-term protection strategies, and make rational decisions based on accurate and timely data analysis. This study aims to determine the possibilities and importance of applying artificial intelligence technologies to the sustainable management of protected areas. The sample group of this study consists of a total of 135 experts from Turkey, Lithuania, and Morocco (45 from each country). The sample includes professionals with expertise in the relevant field, namely lawyers (9), academics (9), managers of protected areas (9), government officials responsible for protected areas (9), and representatives of non-governmental organizations (9). This study employed qualitative research methods, within which a case study design was adopted. For the analysis of the findings, thematic analysis and content analysis techniques were utilized to ensure a comprehensive and in-depth interpretation of the data. Analysis of the results of this study showed that integrating AI into the management of protected areas increases management efficiency and helps create long-term strategies, but successful application depends on cooperation between technology developers, scientists, and environmental specialists. Also, AI applications are expected to be a critical part of the process of environmental sustainability and fighting climate change.
