Title: Water pollution control and revitalization using advanced technologies: Uncovering artificial intelligence options towards environmental health protection, sustainability and water security
Authors: Emmanuel Kwame Nti, Samuel Jerry Cobbina, Eunice Efua Attafuah, Lydia Dziedzorm Senanu, Gloria Amenyeku, Michael Amoah Gyan, Dorcas Forson, Abdul-Rafiw Safo
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e18170
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4383877898

Abstract:
In Ghana, illegal mining (galamsey) activities have polluted most of the river bodies. For example, water bodies in Ghana that are polluted amounts to 60% with most of them in deteriorating condition. However, to live a sustainable life, there is the need to follow rules of environmental management, where pollution control and advanced treatment technologies are imperative. The adoption of control strategies and advanced technologies in galamsey-affected-water basins in Ghana will help provide real-time revitalization for supply of quality water. The control strategies for water pollution management and advanced technologies would particularly help utility companies in ensuring that all Ghanaians continue to get potable, reliable, and sustainable water supplies for the current and future generations. The paper covers three key control strategies for water pollution management, vis-à-vis six major aspects of advanced technologies and the use of artificial intelligence (AI). AI based decision-making tools help optimize the use of various treatment technologies, such as adsorption, ion exchanges, electrokinetic processes, chemical precipitation, phytobial remediation, and membrane technology to effectively remove pollutants from affected water bodies. The paper also focuses on advantages and disadvantages of several advanced technologies, challenges on leveraging the technologies while identifying gaps, and possible technology roadmap. The review contributes to water quality issues in Ghana's Pra river basin by embracing AI and other cutting-edge technologies to address the current water pollution crisis and also ensure sustainable and secure water supply for future generations. This contribution is in line with the United Nations' Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals' (SDGs) goal 6 (clean water and sanitation) and goal 3 (good health and well-being).
