Title: The Mechanical Behavior of Sustainable Concrete Using Raw and Processed Sugarcane Bagasse Ash
Authors: Amr El-said, Ahmed Awad, Mahmood Ahmad, Mohanad Muayad Sabri Sabri, Ahmed Farouk Deifalla, Maged Tawfik
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su141811181
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4294958563

Abstract:
Sugarcane Bagasse Ash (SCBA) is one of the most common types of agricultural waste. By its availability and pozzolanic properties, sugarcane bagasse ash can be utilized as a partial replacement for cement in the production of sustainable concrete. This study experimentally investigated the impact of employing two types of sugarcane bagasse ash as a partial substitute for cement up to 30% on the compressive strength, flexural strength, and Young’s modulus of the concrete mixture. The first type of bagasse ash used was raw SCBA, which was used as it arrived from the plant, with the same characteristics, considering that it was exposed to a temperature of 600 °C in the boilers to generate energy. The second type of bagasse ash utilized, called processed SCBA, was produced by regrinding raw SCBA for an hour and then burning it again for two hours at a temperature of 600 °C. This was done to improve the pozzolanic activity and consequently the mechanical properties of the concrete mixture. The findings indicated that employing raw sugarcane bagasse ash had a detrimental effect on the mechanical characteristics of the concrete mixture but using processed sugarcane bagasse ash at a proportion of no more than 10% had a considerable effect on improving the properties of the concrete mixture. The utilization of processed SCBA up to 10% into the concrete mixture resulted in a 12%, 8%, and 8% increase in compressive strength, flexural strength, and Young’s modulus, respectively, compared to the normal concrete specimen. On the contrary, the inclusion of raw SCBA with varying content into the concrete mixture decreased compressive strength, flexural strength, and Young’s modulus by up to 50%, 30%, and 29%, respectively, compared to the normal concrete specimen. The experimental findings were validated by comparison with ACI predictions. ACI overestimated the flexural strength of SCBA concrete specimens, with a mean coefficient of difference between the ACI equation and experimental results of 22%, however, ACI underestimated the Young’s modulus of SCBA concrete specimens, with a mean coefficient of difference between the ACI equation and experimental results of −6%.
