Title: Sustainable development and national cultures: a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the research field
Authors: Katarzyna Piwowar‐Sulej
Year: 2021
Venue: Environment Development and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-021-02011-w
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200610860

Abstract:
Abstract National culture (NC) plays a crucial role in transitioning societies toward sustainable development (SD) which is based on the triple bottom line (TBL) approach. The impact of NC should be broadly analyzed, taking into account the perspective of individuals, organizations, societies, etc. This constitutes the general field of “national culture sustainable development” (NCSD). To the author’s knowledge, this is the first literature review conducted on the above-defined NCSD field and based on a mixed-methods analysis. It contributes to the development of knowledge by presenting the scientific structure of the general NCSD research field and the main detailed problems addressed in the papers assigned to this field, synthesizing the previous research findings, and emphasizing the need to examine SD holistically. This study revealed that the interest of academics in the NCSD field is growing. The scientific structure of this field is formed by 80 articles, including 63 empirical papers which were based mostly on the analysis of secondary data. The most popular topic in previous studies was the relationship between cultural dimensions (authored by Hofstede) and practices related to reporting on sustainability. Cultural characteristics were combined with the data from different sources and covered different numbers of countries. Subsequent research projects were methodologically separate from the previous ones which implied inconsistent results. Papers discussing the linkage between national culture and all elements of the TBL concept together are rare. The above highlights, i.e., the need for more research based on a holistic approach to SD, methodological rigor and continuity.
