Title: Entomopathogenic Fungi: An Eco-Friendly Synthesis of Sustainable Nanoparticles and Their Nanopesticide Properties
Authors: Ritu Bihal, Jameel M. Al‐Khayri, A. Najitha Banu, Natasha Kudesia, Farah K. Ahmed, Rudradeb Sarkar, Akshit Arora, Kamel A. Abd–Elsalam
Year: 2023
Venue: Microorganisms
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms11061617
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4381322749

Abstract:
The agricultural industry could undergo significant changes due to the revolutionary potential of nanotechnology. Nanotechnology has a broad range of possible applications and advantages, including insect pest management using treatments based on nanoparticle insecticides. Conventional techniques, such as integrated pest management, are inadequate, and using chemical pesticides has negative consequences. As a result, nanotechnology would provide ecologically beneficial and effective alternatives for insect pest control. Considering the remarkable traits they exhibit, silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are recognized as potential prospects in agriculture. Due to their efficiency and great biocompatibility, the utilization of biologically synthesized nanosilver in insect pest control has significantly increased nowadays. Silver nanoparticles have been produced using a wide range of microbes and plants, which is considered an environmentally friendly method. However, among all, entomopathogenic fungi (EPF) have the most potential to be used in the biosynthesis of silver nanoparticles with a variety of properties. Therefore, in this review, different ways to get rid of agricultural pests have been discussed, with a focus on the importance and growing popularity of biosynthesized nanosilver, especially silver nanoparticles made from fungi that kill insects. Finally, the review highlights the need for further studies so that the efficiency of bio-nanosilver could be tested for field application and the exact mode of action of silver nanoparticles against pests can be elucidated, which will eventually be a boon to the agricultural industry for putting a check on pest populations.
