Title: Relic Groundwater and Prolonged Drought Confound Interpretations of Water Sustainability and Lithium Extraction in Arid Lands
Authors: Brendan Moran, David F. Boutt, Sarah McKnight, Jordan Jenckes, LeeAnn Munk, Daniel Corkran, Alexander Kirshen
Year: 2022
Venue: Earth s Future
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1029/2021ef002555
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4285097818

Abstract:
Abstract Demand for lithium for batteries is growing rapidly with the global push to decarbonize energy systems. The Salar de Atacama, Chile holds ∼42% of the planet's reserves in the form of brine hosted in massive evaporite aquifers. The mining of these brines and associated freshwater use has raised concerns over the environmental responsibility of lithium extraction, yet large uncertainties remain regarding fundamental aspects of governing hydrological processes in these environments. This incomplete understanding has led to the perpetuation of misconceptions about what constitutes sustainable or renewable water use and therefore what justifies responsible allocation. We present an integrated hydrological assessment using tritium and stable oxygen, and hydrogen isotopes paired with remotely sensed and terrestrial hydroclimate data to define unique sources of water distinguished by residence time, physical characteristics, and connectivity to modern climate. Our results describe the impacts of prolonged drought on surface and groundwaters and demonstrate that nearly all inflow to the basin is composed of water recharged &gt;65 years ago. Still, modern precipitation is critical to sustaining important wetlands around the salar. Recent large rain events have increased surface water and vegetation extents and terrestrial water storage while mining‐related water withdrawals have continued. As we show, poor conceptualizations of these complex hydrological systems have perpetuated the misallocation of water and the misattribution of impacts. These fundamental issues apply to arid regions globally. Our new framework for hydrological assessment in these basins moves beyond calculating gross inputs‐outputs at a steady state to include all compartmentalized stores that constitute “modern” budgets.
