Title: Energy‐efficiency and sustainability in new generation cloud computing: A vision and directions for integrated management of data centre resources and workloads
Authors: Rajkumar Buyya, Shashikant Ilager, Patricia Arroba
Year: 2023
Venue: Software Practice and Experience
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/spe.3248
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385723923

Abstract:
Abstract Cloud computing has become a critical infrastructure for modern society, like electric power grids and roads. As the backbone of the modern economy, it offers subscription‐based computing services anytime, anywhere, on a pay‐as‐you‐go basis. Its use is growing exponentially with the continued development of new classes of applications driven by a huge number of emerging networked devices. However, the success of Cloud computing has created a new global energy challenge, as it comes at the cost of vast energy usage. Currently, data centres hosting Cloud services world‐wide consume more energy than most countries. Globally, by 2025, they are projected to consume 20% of global electricity and emit up to 5.5% of the world's carbon emissions. In addition, a significant part of the energy consumed is transformed into heat which leads to operational problems, including a reduction in system reliability and the life expectancy of devices, and escalation in cooling requirements. Therefore, for the future generations of Cloud computing to address the environmental and operational consequences of such significant energy usage, they must become energy‐efficient and environmentally sustainable while continuing to deliver high‐quality services. In this article, we propose a vision for learning‐centric approach for the integrated management of new generation Cloud computing environments to reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint while delivering service quality guarantees. In this article, we identify the dimensions and key issues of integrated resource management and our envisioned approaches to address them. We present a conceptual architecture for energy‐efficient new generation Clouds and early results on the integrated management of resources and workloads that evidence its potential benefits towards energy efficiency and sustainability.
