Title: Next generation plant biostimulants &amp; genome sequencing strategies for sustainable agriculture development
Authors: Shivanshu Garg, Pooja Nain, Ashish Kumar, Samiksha Joshi, H. Punetha, Pradeep Kumar Sharma, Sazada Siddiqui, Mohammed O. Alshaharni, Uthman Balgith Algopishi, Amit Mittal
Year: 2024
Venue: Frontiers in Microbiology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2024.1439561
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400745791

Abstract:
The best environment for plant growth and development contains certain essential metabolites. A broad category of metabolites known as "plant biostimulants" (PBs) includes biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and other secondary metabolites related to groups of terpenes, specific nitrogen-containing compounds, and benzene ring-conjugated compounds. The formation of biomolecules depends on both biotic and abiotic factors, such as the release of PB by plants, animals, and microorganisms, or it can result from the control of temperature, humidity, and pressure in the atmosphere, in the case of humic substances (HSs). Understanding the genomic outputs of the concerned organism (may be plants or others than them) becomes crucial for identifying the underlying behaviors that lead to the synthesis of these complex compounds. For the purposes of achieving the objectives of sustainable agriculture, detailed research on PBs is essential because they aid in increasing yield and other growth patterns of agro-economic crops. The regulation of homeostasis in the plant-soil-microbe system for the survival of humans and other animals is mediated by the action of plant biostimulants, as considered essential for the growth of plants. The genomic size and gene operons for functional and regulation control have so far been revealed through technological implementations, but important gene annotations are still lacking, causing a delay in revealing the information. Next-generation sequencing techniques, such as nanopore, nanoball, and Illumina, are essential in troubleshooting the information gaps. These technical advancements have greatly expanded the candidate gene openings. The secondary metabolites being important precursors need to be studied in a much wider scale for accurate calculations of biochemical reactions, taking place inside and outside the synthesized living cell. The present review highlights the sequencing techniques to provide a foundation of opportunity generation for agricultural sustainability.
