Title: Sustainable Materials and Technologies for Biomedical Applications
Authors: Pralhad Pesode, Shivprakash Barve, Sagar V. Wankhede, Akbar Ahmad
Year: 2023
Venue: Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1155/2023/6682892
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388364230

Abstract:
Over the past few years, 3D-printed biomaterials have gained widespread usage in the manufacturing of orthopaedic implants. 3D-printed implants have low weight, minimal material waste, ease of creation, the capacity to create complex topological implants that are patient specific, and a porous structure that permits tissue development. 3D printing has the potential to reduce material waste, cut transportation costs, optimise manufacturing costs, streamline the supply chain in supply chain management (SCM), and enhance environmental sustainability by utilising the concept of production-on-demand (POD). Biopolymer-based composites consisting of cellulose, chitin, and chitosan are sustainable materials that may be utilised as necessary. In light of the present biomedical issues, hydroxyapatite and starch combinations have immense potential for generating sustainable biomaterials. Carbon, which is a key category of sustainable biomaterials, is found in a wide range of carbonaceous gels and biomaterials based on cellulose fibres and carbon nanotube. The goal of this article is to give a thorough review of a few of the most recent developments, uses, and challenges for biomaterials made from sustainable resources. In this article, the authors have initially covered different biomaterials such as metallic, polymeric, ceramic, and composite and their properties and applications. Sustainable manufacturing techniques for biomaterials such as 3D and 4D printing are also covered in this article. Different sustainable biomaterials are covered with their properties and applications such as protein-based, cellulose, chitin, and chitosan composite-based, hydroxyapatite-starch-based and carbonaceous biomaterials. At last, future scope and opportunities in sustainable biomaterials and manufacturing techniques are covered. It has been found out that 3D printing technologies may support circular production systems across a range of sectors including biomedical by permitting the use of recycled and recovered materials as raw materials only when necessary.
