Title: Household energy use pattern in rural India: A path towards sustainable development
Authors: Vikesh Sharma, Madhusmita Dash
Year: 2021
Venue: Environmental Challenges
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envc.2021.100404
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3214744534

Abstract:
Inadequate access to a clean and affordable energy source and large-scale use of solid fuels are the primary reasons behind low quality of life in most of the developing countries. Although the SDG7 ensures access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern eneregy around three billion people worldwide use solid fuels for cooking purposes. In India, only 49% population have access to clean fuels. About four million people die prematurely due to illness caused by household air pollution that comes from inefficient cooking practices. Exposure to indoor air pollution increases the risk of childhood pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in adults, and stroke. Given this backdrop, the objectives of the present study are to (i) access and examine the pattern of household energy use and (ii) identify the factors influencing household's cooking energy preferencesin India. The paper has used primary data collected by the Access to Clean Cooking Energy and Electricity- Survey of States (ACCESS) 2014-15. Multinomial logit model (MNL) and descriptive statistics have been used to analyse the data. The result of the current study indicates that households with regular and fixed sources of income, such as salaried jobs, own businesses, etc., are less likely to use solid fuels. Age and education level of household head, decission making (on purchage of durable goods) by female and both (i.e. male-female), households having higher monthly expenditure and a pucca house discourage traditional fuel use. Further, households with irregular sources of income and kaccha houses continue to use solid fuels. Unexpectedly, physical assets act as incentives to use solid fuel . Based on the results, it is evident that government policy like Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana (PMUY) is necessary but not sufficient. Locational analysis indicates that peopleare more inclined towards traditional fuel usage in areas where forest cover is high. The findings suggest that providing alternative income-generating opportunities, increasing working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme and its coverage would be a step forward. Further, the promotion of women education and mass awareness programs can result in better health and environmental outcomes. Moreover, initiative towards merging of fragmented agriculture landholdings and promoting allied activities such as fisheries, poultry farming etc., can play a major role in boosting household income and thereby LPG use.
