Title: Application of Artificial Intelligence in Education. Problems and Opportunities for Sustainable Development
Authors: Valentyna Yuskovych-Zhukovska, Tetiana Poplavska, Oksana Diachenko, Тетяна Михайлівна Мішеніна, Yana Topolnyk, Roman Gurevych
Year: 2022
Venue: BRAIN BROAD RESEARCH IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND NEUROSCIENCE
DOI: https://doi.org/10.18662/brain/13.1sup1/322
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4293086466

Abstract:
The article is devoted to the application of artificial intelligence in education and highlighting opportunities and problems in the context of sustainable development. The current state of introduction of artificial intelligence technologies in the educational process is analyzed. The technologies of artificial intelligence, which are most often used in the educational process are generalized into the following categories: cognitive services; virtual, mixed and augmented reality; Internet of things and peripheral computing; metacognitive scaffolding. The advantages of using the artificial intelligence in educational processes depending on the impact on its beneficiaries are generalized: students, teachers, students’ parents, heads of educational institutions, local governments. It is proved that the learning process can be significantly effective through the use of artificial intelligence technologies and the creation of individual training programs based on the use of analytical data obtained from the application of these technologies. It is found that the main advantage of using artificial intelligence in education is the individualization and personalization of the educational process. The benefits are pointed out which heads of educational institutions and local governments receive from the use of artificial intelligence technologies in the educational process in order to ensure sustainable development, including transparency and accountability of decisions, rational and energy efficient use of resources. Discussion issues of confidentiality and depersonalization of students’ data who are processed by artificial intelligence during the educational process are revealed; it is recommended to differentiate the responsibility for access, storage and use of personal and confidential data by educational institutions. Prospects for further scientific research are outlined - further personalization and individualization of the educational process.
