Title: Advancing sustainability in the automotive industry: Bioprepregs and fully bio-based composites
Authors: Denise A. M. Carvalho, Nicola Ferreira, Beatriz Helena Sotille França, Rita Marques, Mário J. Silva, Sofia Marques Silva, Eva Silva, David Macário, Lia Barroso, Carla Silva, Cristina Oliveira
Year: 2024
Venue: Composites Part C Open Access
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcomc.2024.100459
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394742180

Abstract:
Market demands for sustainability has propelled the need for cost-effective manufacturing techniques and eco-friendly materials in several industries, such as the automotive. Bio-materials are a current trend due to qualities like renewability and biodegradability, combined with exceptional mechanical properties. The rise of biocomposites, especially those derived from bioprepregs materials, become a reality in this industry. With the uniqueness of a fully bio-based prepreg, where the matrix and reinforcements themselves are obtained from bio-sources such as plants, the industry can unlock the full potential of biocomposites, paving the way for a future where sustainable materials play a central role in automotive manufacturing. As sustainability remains a core priority, continued research, development, and collaboration will be crucial in realizing the vision of a more environmentally responsible automotive sector. Extensive research is necessary to comprehend the distinct properties of natural or natural based fibers and the biopolymeric materials and their intrinsic interactions associated a different type of process, such as hot-melt impregnation and coating, powder sputtering, film stacking, and hybrid structures. This article's primary objective is to review the current trends and developments in bioprepreg innovation, exploring formulation techniques and materials to achieve fully bio-based prepregs covering various textile bioprepregs, delving into their properties, reinforcement structures, matrix systems, processing technologies, performance achievements, and their applications, particularly in the automotive sector. Additionally, it briefly examines fully bio-based composites, representing a significant step towards mitigating the environmental impact of composite materials.
