Title: Sustained Human Outbreak of a New MPXV Clade I Lineage in Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo
Authors: Emmanuel Hasivirwe Vakaniaki, Cris Kacita, Eddy Kinganda-Lusamaki, Áine O’Toole, Tony Wawina-Bokalanga, Daniel Mukadi‐Bamuleka, Adrienne Amuri-Aziza, Nadine Malyamungu-Bubala, Franklin Mweshi Kumbana, Léandre Mutimbwa-Mambo, Freddy Belesi-Siangoli, Yves Mujula, Edyth Parker, Pauline-Chloé Muswamba-Kayembe, Sabin S. Nundu, Robert Shongo Lushima, Jean-Claude Makangara-Cigolo, Noëlla Mulopo-Mukanya, Elisabeth Pukuta Simbu, Prince Akil-Bandali, Hugo Kavunga, Koen Vercauteren, Nadia A. Sam‐Agudu, Edward J. Mills, Olivier Tshiani-Mbaya, Nicole A. Hoff, Anne W. Rimoin, Lisa E. Hensley, Jason Kindrachuk, Ahidjo Ayouba, Martine Peeters, Éric Delaporte, Steve Ahuka‐Mundeke, Jean B. Nachega, Jean‐Jacques Muyembé‐Tamfum, Andrew Rambaut, Laurens Liesenborghs, Placide Mbala‐Kingebeni
Year: 2024
Venue: medRxiv
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.04.12.24305195
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394797669

Abstract:
ABSTRACT Background Monkeypox virus (MPXV) attracted global attention in 2022 during a widespread outbreak linked primarily to sexual contact. Clade I MPXV is prevalent in Central Africa and characterized by severe disease and high mortality, while Clade II is confined to West Africa and associated with milder illness. A Clade IIb MPXV emerged in Nigeria in 2017, with protracted human-to-human transmission a forerunner of the global Clade II B.1 lineage outbreak in 2022. In October 2023, a large mpox outbreak emerged in the Kamituga mining region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), of which we conducted an outbreak investigation. Methods Surveillance data and hospital records were collected between October 2023 and January 2024. Blood samples and skin/oropharyngeal swabs were obtained for molecular diagnosis at the National Institute of Biomedical Research, Kinshasa. MPXV genomes were sequenced and analyzed using Illumina NextSeq 2000 and bioinformatic tools. Results The Kamituga mpox outbreak spread rapidly, with 241 suspected cases reported within 5 months of the first reported case. Of 108 confirmed cases, 29% were sex workers, highlighting sexual contact as a key mode of infection. Genomic analysis revealed a distinct MPXV Clade Ib lineage, divergent from previously sequenced Clade I strains in DRC. Predominance of APOBEC3-type mutations and estimated time of emergence around mid-September 2023 suggest recent human-to-human transmission. Conclusions Urgent measures, including reinforced, expanded surveillance, contact tracing, case management support, and targeted vaccination are needed to contain this new pandemic-potential Clade Ib outbreak.
