Title: Predictors of Intention to Use a Sustainable Cloud-Based Quality Management System among Academics in Jordan
Authors: Dima Dajani, Saad G. Yaseen, Ihab Ali El Qirem, Hanadi Sa’d
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su142114253
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4308118204

Abstract:
This research aims to provide a predictive model of essential factors influencing the behavioral intention to use sustainable cloud-based quality management systems among academics in Jordan. A comprehensive research model was developed based on the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT2) and the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB), which was tested using cross-sectional data. The research sample covers Jordanian higher education institutions (23 governmental and private universities), and the unit of analysis includes 500 academics. The research adapts and modifies the UTAUT2 model and TPB to explain behavioral intention to use sustainable cloud-based quality management systems in developing countries. The proposed model explained 0.478 percent of behavioral intention variance and 0.127 percent of the user behavior variance. Three constructs are found to be significant predictors: perceived behavioral control, performance expectancy, and facilitating conditions. The attitude toward the behavior and subjective norm are not significant predictors. The research contributes to the literature in several ways. First, it extends previous studies by examining predictors of the behavioral intention to use SCQMS in higher education institutions. Second, it provides rigorous empirical evidence that incorporating the UTAUT2 model with the TPB produced a substantial improvement in the variance explained in behavioral intention compared to the prior research conducted in developing contexts. Third, this research provides useful insight into university management. The research provides a better understanding of the essential factors influencing the behavior intention to use sustainable cloud-based quality management systems in Jordanian Universities. Thus, the research model provides better explanatory power than previous studies in business literature and developing markets.
