Title: Role of Social Inclusion in Sustainable Urban Developments: An Analyse by PRISMA Technique
Authors: Sanjay Taneja, Pallavi Jaggi, Simran Jewandah, Ercan Özen
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Design & Nature and Ecodynamics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.18280/ijdne.170615
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313815707

Abstract:
The world is becoming ever more urban. Cities housed were 50% of the world's population in 2007, and by 2030, that number is projected to increase 60%. Cities and metropolitan regions are the primary drivers of economic growth, contributing over 60% of the global GDP. Furthermore, they are responsible for about 70% of global carbon emissions and around 60% of resource utilisation. This research’s main objective is to address how sustainable development in urban areas leads to social inclusion. The paper is of great interest to industrialists and academicians who are interested in understanding the relationship between sustainable goals. The systematic review was conducted on the reporting checklist of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA). 1373 publications were found after searching Scopus and other similar databases; 40 papers were included after being screened according to the pre-established standards. Out of 1373 articles only 40 articles were selected from the data base. Only a few researches from Africa and Asia were included, with the majority coming from Italy, China, and North America. According to the research, there were more empirical investigations than conceptual studies. Social, economic, and environmental factors all play a role in sustainable development. Social inclusion was commonly incorporated in urban sustainability, although it was often treated as a stand-alone component rather than being mainstreamed. Urbanization addresses issues of long-term development such as population expansion, slow economic and social progress, unemployment, and slums. Economic growth and technological advancement have altered people's quality of life. Citizen participation is essential for developing sustainable policy. Participation helps in improving the qualitative aspects of the project. Multiple theories were utilized for the purpose of understanding sustainable goals. Key strategy implications include prioritizing the most vulnerable socially excluded populations, ensuring equal representation in urban planning, designing people-centred systems, building partnerships with communities, considering socio-cultural-political-economic contexts, and recognizing both intended and unintended effects. Communication plays an important role in understanding sustainable development goals. To have sustainable development, a combination of different means of transport, a multi-model transport system should be prioritized. Future research needs to focus on Middle and Low income earning nations at the function of social inclusion using cross-disciplinary approaches in achieving sustainable development.
