Title: Sustaining circular economy practices in supply chains during a global disruption
Authors: Ashish Dwivedi, Priyabrata Chowdhury, Sanjoy Kumar Paul, Dindayal Agrawal
Year: 2023
Venue: The International Journal of Logistics Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijlm-04-2022-0154
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313476759

Abstract:
Purpose Circular economy (CE) practices are critical to achieving sustainable development goals. However, the recent global disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted sustainable practices. The literature shows a significant research gap in analyzing factors that sustain CE practices in supply chains during a global disruption. This study fills the research gap by developing a mix-method approach to analyze factors for sustaining CE practices during a global disruption. Design/methodology/approach To fulfill the objectives of this study, the list of factors that sustain CE practices was first identified by conducting a literature review and finalized through an expert opinion survey. The survey finalized 18 different factors for sustaining CE practices. The finalized factors were further analyzed using the grey decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory (DEMATEL) method. The quantitative analysis confirmed the priority of the factors and their cause-and-effect relationships. Findings The results revealed that continued stakeholder pressure, retention of CE and sustainability culture, continued implementation of cleaner technology, feedback system and ongoing CE training for resilience issues are the top five factors that sustain CE practices during a global disruption. The study also revealed ten factors as belonging to the cause group and eight to the effect group. Originality/value This study contributes to the literature by exploring factors for sustaining CE practices during a global disruption. Moreover, the study’s findings are important in real-life situations, as decision-makers can use the findings to formulate strategies for sustaining CE practices during future global disruptions.
