Title: Valorization of Eggshell as Renewable Materials for Sustainable Biocomposite Adsorbents—An Overview
Authors: Bolanle M. Babalola, Lee D. Wilson
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Composites Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/jcs8100414
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403214671

Abstract:
The production and buildup of eggshell waste represents a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge is that uncontrolled disposal of generated eggshell waste relates to a sustainability concern for the environment. The opportunity relates to utilization of this biomass resource via recycling for waste valorization, cleaner production, and development of a circular economy. This review explores the development of eggshell powder (ESP) from eggshell waste and a coverage of various ESP composite sorbents with an emphasis on their potential utility as adsorbent materials for model pollutants in solid–liquid systems. An overview of literature since 2014 outlines the development of eggshell powder (ESP) and ESP composite adsorbents for solid–liquid adsorption processes. The isolation and treatment of ESP in its pristine or modified forms by various thermal or chemical treatments, along with the preparation of ESP biocomposites is described. An overview of the physico-chemical characterization of ESP and its biocomposites include an assessment of the adsorption properties with various model pollutants (cations, anions, and organic dyes). A coverage of equilibrium and kinetic adsorption isotherm models is provided, along with relevant thermodynamic parameters that govern the adsorption process for ESP-based adsorbents. This review reveals that ESP biocomposite adsorbents represent an emerging class of sustainable materials with tailored properties via modular synthetic strategies. This review will serve to encourage the recycling and utilization of eggshell biomass waste and its valorization as potential adsorbent systems. The impact of such ESP biosorbents cover a diverse range of adsorption-based applications from environmental remediation to slow-release fertilizer carrier systems in agricultural production.
