Title: Recent trends in synthesis of 2D MXene-based materials for sustainable environmental applications
Authors: Ritesh Verma, Ankush Sharma, Vishal Dutta, Ankush Chauhan, Dinesh Pathak, Suresh Ghotekar
Year: 2023
Venue: Emergent Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s42247-023-00591-z
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389056195

Abstract:
Abstract The unique properties of two-dimensional (2D) materials have piqued the interest of the technical community. Titanium carbide (MXene) is a member of a rapidly expanding family of 2D materials with exceptional physiochemical characteristics and a wide range of uses in the environmental field. 2D MXene has long been a topic of interest in environmental applications, including wastewater treatment, electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding, photocatalysis, and hydrogen evolution reactions (HER) due to its high conductivity, varied band gap, hydrophilic nature, and exceptional structural stability. This study covers important developments in 2D MXene and discusses how design, synthetic methods, and stability have changed over time. In this review paper, we have discussed the strategy synthesizing of conventional, affordable heterojunctions and Schottky junctions, as well as the development, mechanisms, and trends in the deterioration of environmental organic contaminants, HER, and EMI Shielding. We also explore the obstacles and restrictions that prevent the scientific community from producing practical MXene with regulated characteristics and structures for environmental applications and analyzing its present usage. The hazardous-environmental aspects of MXene-based materials and the problems and future possibilities of these applications are also examined and emphasized. This review paper focused on environmental applications such as heavy metal detection and removal, EMI shielding, and hydrogen generation using MXenes. The issues related to wastewater, electromagnetic interference, and clean energy production are very persistent in the environment, and a better material is required to address these challenges. Thus, MXene is a kind of material that could be a better alternative to address these persistent issues, and hence, this review becomes very important, which can pave the way for the development of MXene-based materials to address these issues. Graphical abstract
