Title: Sustainability assessment of optimal location of electric vehicle charge stations: a conceptual framework for green energy into smart cities
Authors: Mohamed Abdel‐Basset, Abduallah Gamal, Ibrahim M. Hezam, Karam M. Sallam
Year: 2023
Venue: Environment Development and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-023-03373-z
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4378696736

Abstract:
Abstract Electric vehicles (EVs) have achieved a great deal of success, indicating that the motor industry will soon be emission-free. They run on electricity stored in batteries, which their drivers can recharge using an external source of electricity. Therefore, the development of an infrastructure for charging EVs has become a necessity. In this paper, a real case study in Zagazig, Egypt, for evaluating, operating, and determining the most sustainable location for an EV charging station is presented. Identifying such a location is a complex task that requires considering many influencing factors and their sub-factors. Consequently, a general evaluation system that includes six key factors, in addition to nineteen sub-factors, has been developed. A multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) approach is applied to deal with this problem. The neutrosophic theory with type-2 neutrosophic numbers (T2NNs) and a type-2 neutrosophic number weighted averaging (T2NNWA) operator are used to combine expert and specialized views since they are ambiguous and uncertain. Firstly, the Decision-making Trial and Evaluation Laboratory (DEMATEL) method is applied to prioritize key factors and sub-factors. Then, the Complex Proportional Assessment (COPRAS) technique selects six sustainable sites for EV charging stations. Also, comparison and sensitivity evaluations verify the approach's reliability, strength, stability, and performance. Finally, this article provides good information for policymakers and the results of the case study indicate that the economic factor is the most important factor in selecting the optimal location followed by the technical factor.
