Title: Digital twins: cornerstone to circular economy and sustainability goals
Authors: Zain Anwar Ali, Mahreen Zain, Raza Hasan, Muhammad Salman Pathan, Hussain AlSalman, Faisal Almisned
Year: 2025
Venue: Environment Development and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-025-06221-4
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4410076450

Abstract:
Abstract Accurate information is a prerequisite for circulation and greater longevity of materials and products, enabling the economically and environmentally successful transition of circular economy (CE) in the aspiration towards sustainable development. However, a lack of appropriate digital tools is noticed in supplying relevant information and supporting recyclability, reusability, and reducibility processes. This study focuses on a building block of evolving technologies anointed the digital twin (DT). It aims to conceptualize DT as a cornerstone for the CE paradigm, positively influencing sustainability. It also endeavors to scrutinize remarkable implementations of DT-driven CE, accomplishing sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Ireland. An iterative methodology based on four steps is adopted to review an explosion of relevant, recent literature published in 2019–2024 and multiple case studies of Irish construction and manufacturing sectors. By analyzing the literature, this study discovers the evolution and taxonomy of DT, other technologies essential for its deployment, its proactive role in implementing CE and SDGs, and some challenges. Key findings of case studies reveal the current trajectory of employing DT with other digital products, upholding the CE practices within the bounds of the SDGs in Irish companies. In conclusion, DT is a conceivable means for advancing CE solutions and attaining SDGs towards social, economic, and environmental sustainability. The implications of this study are both theoretically and practically significant, encouraging industrialists and academia to adopt DT. It will help scholars gain a thorough understanding and guide industrialists to downsize their carbon footprint and waste, accomplishing SDGs. It will inspire managers with DT-driven information for decision-making and facilitate government and policymakers to collaborate in designing essential policies. Graphical Abstract
