Title: Lignin valorization reshapes sustainable biomass refining
Authors: Zhihua Liu, He Liu, Tao Xu, Zhi‐Min Zhao, Arthur J. Ragauskas, Bing‐Zhi Li, Joshua S. Yuan, Ying‐Jin Yuan
Year: 2024
Venue: Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2024.115296
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4405843556

Abstract:
As the largest natural reservoir of aromatics, lignin offers significant potential for bioproduct manufacturing through advances in valorization technologies. However, the intrinsically complex structures of lignin pose significant challenges for its fractionization and downstream valorization. Overcoming challenges in lignin chemistry modification is crucial for achieving effective lignin valorization and establishing sustainable biorefinery industries. This review explores the potential of tailoring lignin reactivity to enable functional bioproduct manufacturing thereby contributing to profitable biorefining. The intrinsic characteristics of lignin are first summarized, highlighting their roles in both fractionization and valorization. The latest progress in lignin fractionation is then presented, emphasizing their potential to tailor lignin chemistry, reactivity, and processibility. Furthermore, advancements in lignin valorization are covered, recognizing that tailored lignin reactivity is key to defining bioproduct functionality. By examining these chemical mechanisms, this review sheds on the structure-function relationships between lignin and its derived products. To address the dilemma of lignin valorization and biorefineries, a promising synergistic biorefinery is proposed. This involves redesigning biomass fractionation strategies, tailoring lignin chemistry, and upgrading both carbohydrate and lignin streams across the entire biorefinery chain—from feedstock to application. Overall, a deeper understanding of tailored lignin chemistry is crucial for decoding the reaction mechanisms in biomass processing. A synergistic biorefinery could harness lignin's intrinsic properties to improve product functionality and address key challenges, paving the way for cost-effective, sustainable biorefinery solutions. Lignin valorization integrated synergistic biorefinery scenario. • Lignin valorization presents significant potential for a sustainable biorefinery. • Tailoring lignin reactivity will define the functionality of lignin-based product. • Understanding structure-function relationships greatly aids in lignin valorization. • A synergistic biorefinery enhances the upgrading of both carbohydrates and lignin. • Synergistic biorefinery with lignin valorization could reshape biorefining scenarios.
