Title: Energy Status in Africa: Challenges, Progress and Sustainable Pathways
Authors: Maklewa Agoundedemba, Chang Ki Kim, Hyun‐Goo Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Energies
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/en16237708
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4388912921

Abstract:
Access to modern energy is essential for socioeconomic development, yet Africa faces significant challenges in this regard. For example, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is marked by economic underdevelopment and poverty largely due to the non-environmentally friendly energy used (wood, charcoal) and limited access to modern energy resources. Indeed, this review provides an overview of the African energy landscape; it provides a comprehensive renewables-focused energy pathway for developing a cleaner and more sustainable African energy system. It explores end-use sector electrification in both rural and urban areas in Africa. It emphasizes the rapid expansion of renewable generation, the challenges facing and solutions for the implementation of renewable energy, and the role of emerging technologies. It also presents technological pathways and investment opportunities that will enrich the regional debate and help accelerate the energy transformation across Africa. The analysis demonstrated that the current trends of renewable energy used are hydropower, wind power, biomass, and geothermal energy. The electrification rate in West Africa is less than 58% in urban areas and less than 25% in rural areas. Results show that 65% of the SSA population does not have access to electricity and 81% rely on wood and charcoal. In West Africa, only Ghana (70% or so) and Cape Verde (95.9% or so) have equitable access to electricity between rural and urban areas. The potentiality of solar irradiance in Africa ranges between 3 and 7 KWh/m2/day. The wind speed ranges from 3 m/s to 10 m/s; the wave power can range from 7 to 25 kW/m per site in island regions. Egypt, Morocco, Ethiopia, Tunisia, and South Africa are, respectively, countries leading in wind power technology, and solar energy technology was more advanced in North Africa and South Africa. Finally, geothermal is only developed in Kenya and Tanzania and Kenya is the leader in that field. Although renewable energy in Africa is still growing year to year, it still faces power outages because most renewable energy potentialities are not yet exploited, the technologies used are weak, there is insufficient funding, there is ineffective infrastructure, and there are inadequate or no policies in that field.
