Title: Impact of Sustainable Finance on MSMEs and other Companies to Promote Green Growth and Sustainable Development
Authors: K. M. Mahesh, P. S. Aithal, K. R. S. Sharma
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Applied Engineering and Management Letters
DOI: https://doi.org/10.47992/ijaeml.2581.7000.0120
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4211228983

Abstract:
Purpose: Sustainable Finance (SF) contributes to better development and better Finance for Economic growth. Sustainable development is protecting and restoring the ecological system. SIDBI, NITI Aayog, and World Bank facilitate Sustainable Finance to encourage businesses to grow from Small Medium Enterprises to large Industries to make an enormous global impact. As per the World Bank estimate, adversely affect the standard of living of the population and climate change will reduce India’s GDP by nearly 3%. For tracking the climate protection performance of the country, the CCPI tool is used. The Key sustainable finance providers to companies and MSME’s are Banks, Corporations, International Financial Institutions, Institutional Investors, International organizations through Financial Instruments Climate Funds, Green Bonds, Impact Finance, Social bonds, Microfinance, SIDBI Sustainable Finance Scheme for funding, NABARD, and Make in India. MSMEs, and SMEs involved in the Projects Solar Power Plants, renewable energy, Green Machinery, Waste Management, Electric Vehicles (EV), Clean Energy, Recycle, Poverty alleviations, and Energy conservation, and India is committed to achieving Net Zero Emissions by 2070. During the Climate summit in Glasgow, India accepted for Five –Point climate ‘panchamrit, or pledge’ towards climate change and Climate Finance. As per the Environment ministry. India needs $280 billion for green infrastructure and the government of India proposed the creation of a Social Stock Exchange, Europe Investment Bank (EIB) with SBI. RBI has considered Green and Sustainable projects should be put under Priority Sector Lending (PSL) to support GE (Green Economy) growth and to meet the SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) and ESG (Economic, Social, Environment) guidelines for fundraising. Methodology / Design /Approaches: In this article theoretical concepts are used in the analysis of various financing Mechanics for green production and Sustainable development. Findings and results: The effectiveness of sustainable finance or Climate finance required for MSME and Companies for greener production infrastructure and government of India missions on climate Change, Regular to boost the ESG to promote sustainable development and Economic growth. Originality/value: Analysed the various articles and case studies and prepared the model required for sustainable fiancé for green growth in India. Type of Paper: Research Analysis
