Title: Ductility Enhancement of Sustainable Fibrous-Reinforced High-Strength Lightweight Concrete
Authors: Md. Akter Hosen, Mahaad Issa Shammas, Sukanta Kumer Shill, Safat Al‐Deen, Mohd Zamin Jumaat, Huzaifa Hashim
Year: 2022
Venue: Polymers
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/polym14040727
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4212971301

Abstract:
To limit the cross-sectional size of concrete structures, high-strength, lightweight concrete is preferred for the design and construction of structural elements. However, the main drawback of high-strength, lightweight concrete is its brittleness over normal-weight concrete. The ductility of concrete is a crucial factor, which plays an important role when the concrete structures are subjected to extreme situations, such as earthquakes and wind. This study aims to improve the ductility of high-strength, lightweight concrete by incorporating steel fibers. The palm oil clinker (POC)-based, high-strength, lightweight concrete specimens reinforced with steel fibers were prepared and their ductility was systematically examined. POC was used as aggregates and supplementary cementitious materials. Steel fibers from 0-1.50% (by volume), with an increment of 0.5%, were used in the concrete mix. Compression ductility, displacement ductility and energy ductility were used as indicators to evaluate the enhancement of ductility. Moreover, the compressive strength, flexural strength, stress-strain behavior, modulus of elasticity, load-displacement characteristics, energy absorption capacity and deformability of the concrete samples were investigated. The compression ductility, displacement ductility and energy ductility indexes were found to be increased by up to 472%, 140% and 568% compared to the control specimens (concrete with 0% steel fibers), respectively. Moreover, the deformability and energy absorption capacity of the concrete were increased by up to 566% and 125%, respectively. Therefore, POC-based, high-strength, fibrous, lightweight concrete could perform better than conventional concrete under extreme loading conditions as it showed significantly higher ductility.
