Title: Sustainable Waste Management Strategies for Effective Energy Utilization in Oman: A Review
Authors: Kenneth E. Okedu, Hind Barghash, Husam A. Al Nadabi
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3389/fbioe.2022.825728
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4210873006

Abstract:
Due to the adverse effect of energy production from traditional fossil fuels, the move toward renewable and sustainable energy has become imperative. The waste disposal sector offers hope toward environmental sustainability and potential to generate strong income for any economy. The region of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) member countries in the Middle East generates the highest quantity of municipal waste per capita, compared to other countries globally. In the GCC region, waste is usually just dumped at different landfill stations. Effective waste management is imperative for environmental protection and sustainable development. This article presents a review of the sustainable waste management strategies in Oman, in line with the United Nations goal on environmental management of waste. The current waste management strategies in Oman were discussed, and various waste-to-energy (WTE) technologies were proposed. These proposed WTE strategies would help in effective waste management in Oman and also in increasing the power grid capability. The salient part of this article is an overview of the ability of using landfill leachate as feedstock to produce clean and green hydrogen gas using different photo-fermentation processes. The production of hydrogen using single photo-fermentation process using landfill leachate alone, with leachate and addition of inoculum such as sewage sludge, and with substrates such as sucrose, glucose, and landfill leachate was investigated by utilizing a batch bioreactor and anaerobic conditions at controlled temperature, different initial pH, and heat treatment temperature range. Furthermore, a prototype model for the optimization of the inoculum size and the substrate was proposed with 2-level factorial design using Design Expert. The data gathering for this study was carried out by investigating different regions in Oman having the lowest and highest waste produce, the average annual waste for the different governorates, and the total amount of waste for five consecutive years (2015-2020), for the various engineered landfills. The cost of managing waste in the different governorates of Oman was presented, considering the average annual waste produced, in various regions of the country for the duration of the study. Furthermore, some challenges and opportunities in carrying out effective waste management in Oman were addressed.
