Title: A literature review on green supply chain management for sustainable sourcing and distribution
Authors: Dharmendra Hariyani, Poonam Hariyani, Sanjeev Kumar Mishra, Milind Kumar Sharma
Year: 2024
Venue: Waste Management Bulletin
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wmb.2024.11.009
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4404812441

Abstract:
Due to increasing environmental awareness and legislation, green supply chain management (GSCM) is essential for organizations. Despite significant research on GSCM principles, there is limited clarity on their specific application to sustainable sourcing and distribution. The research aims to clarify the core principles of GSCM, differentiate sustainable sourcing and distribution concepts, evaluate theoretical frameworks guiding GSCM practices, investigate recent innovations, and identify challenges and barriers to GSCM. This review explores GSCM with a focus on sustainable sourcing and distribution by utilizing the Scopus database. The database is searched from Jan 17th, 2024 to August 25th, 2024. By employing Title-ABS-Key (“green supply chain management” and “sustainable sourcing” or “sustainable distribution” or “framework” or “model” or “innovation” or “challenges” or “barriers”) search, the review includes 266 papers from period 1997 to 2024. The review delves into key theoretical frameworks such as the triple bottom line, stakeholder theory, and resource-based view, etc. and discusses their application in the context of GSCM. Findings show that (i) technological advancements like blockchain, IoT, AI, and big data analytics enhance transparency, optimize logistics, and reduce environmental impact, (ii) material innovations viz. bioplastics and recycled resources promote a circular economy and resource conservation, and (iii) supplier engagement through training, incentives, and collaboration foster sustainable practices. For green distribution, eco-friendly packaging, green transportation, and energy-efficient warehousing are important. The review also illustrates the best practices for the GSCM. The paper also addresses challenges including financial barriers, technological limitations, regulatory constraints, and cultural resistance.
