Title: Rational sustainability
Authors: Alex Edmans
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of applied corporate finance
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jacf.12609
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400205024

Abstract:
ESG is under attack from all sides. Opponents object to the incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) issues in investment decisions, arguing that it allows fund managers to pursue their own agendas at the expense of client returns. Proposed solutions range from disinvesting from ESG funds to banning ESG outright. In January 2024, Republican lawmakers in New Hampshire introduced a bill to prohibit the state from investing in funds that consider ESG factors; violation would be a felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison. Supporters range from true believers, who view ESG as a sure-fire way to achieve both financial returns and social impact, to opportunists who saw ESG – at least historically – as a means to exploit a bubble. Asset managers launched ESG funds; companies courted capital, customers, and colleagues by touting their ESG credentials; and authors, influencers, and professors reinvented themselves as ESG experts even if they never previously cared for the topic. But both true believers and opportunists are recognizing the shifting sands – the former are ploughing ahead but calling it something different; the latter are reversing course and looking for the next fad. In June 2023, BlackRock's Larry Fink, a previously outspoken ESG supporter, announced that he'd no longer use the ESG term because it had become “weaponized,” but not change his actual stance. A January 2024 Financial Times article noted that just six funds citing ESG factors launched in the second half of 2023, as compared with 55 in the first half.1 On the same day, the Wall Street Journal dubbed ESG “the latest dirty word in Corporate America.”2 Alongside the true believers and opportunists lies a third group of supporters. They believe that the practice of integrating some – but not all – ESG factors, can create value, but the term “ESG” has several problems. In a 2023 article entitled “The End of ESG,” I argued that ESG is “extremely important” because it is critical to long-term value and thus should be of interest to anyone, but the term “ESG” implies that it's niche. I also claimed that it is “nothing special” compared to other intangible assets such as productivity, innovation, and culture, but the term “ESG” puts it on a pedestal.3 This is far more than a semantic issue since the term ends up affecting the practice; the “incorporation” of environmental, social, and governance factors sometimes morphs into their “prioritization” or “exclusive consideration.” Some companies allocate capital to initiatives that can be labelled ESG over those that might create more long-term value, or make misguided decisions designed to improve ESG metrics even when they are not material to the business. Some investors buy a stock that satisfies ESG criteria with little regard for its price, or automatically vote against the appointment of a new director if it does not achieve their board diversity target, irrespective of that director's other credentials. Some clients pile into funds marketed as ESG irrespective of their actual performance. On the flipside, ESG skeptics have an allergic reaction to funds labelled “ESG” even when the funds use ESG for purely financial goals. “The End of ESG” was the first in a series of three 2023 articles I wrote to address the problems with ESG. In that first one, I advocated that the ESG practice become both more mainstream and more nuanced.4 In the second, I argued that the term itself should be scrapped.5 And in the third, I highlighted yet another issue: the tendency of the term “ESG” be replace clear-headed thinking by implying that it's somehow different from mainstream business.6 As a result of this tendency, investors and corporate managers are misled into thinking that the insights from decades of research don't apply and resort to “gut feel” when practicing ESG. But if we scrap ESG, what do we replace it with? Retiring the term without changing the practice fails to address the many legitimate concerns about ESG. Abandoning the practice entirely will throw the baby out with the bathwater and lose the many benefits of considering ESG factors in corporate and investment decisions. In “The End of ESG” I suggested that we replace the term with either “long-term value” or “intangible assets,” but neither term is perfect. ESG supporters argue that, even though in theory “long-term value” should lead us to consider any relevant factor, including ESG, in practice we may not, and “ESG” usefully reminds us to do so. “Intangible assets” has the virtue of directing us to look beyond tangible factors to create value, but we may only think to study brand and innovation rather than a company's impact on the environment and communities. A separate issue is that practitioners typically consider intangible assets only for financial reasons, but ESG may be pursued for social objectives. This article proposes the term and practice of “Rational Sustainability” as an alternative to ESG. “Sustainability” refers to the goal: creating sustainable, long-term value, which is relevant to all job functions and political beliefs. It considers all factors that create value, regardless of whether they fall under an ESG label, and deprioritizes immaterial factors even if they can be called ESG. “Rational” refers to the approach: it recognizes diminishing returns and trade-offs; it is based on evidence and analysis; it questions many widespread sustainability conventions and practices rather than following the herd; and it guards against being caught up in irrational sustainability bubbles.7 Rational Sustainability is About Value Creation, not Politics. Rational Sustainability is About Outcomes, not Labels. Rational Sustainability is Intrinsic, not Instrumental. Rational Sustainability is Core, not Peripheral. Rational Sustainability is Enabling, not Prescriptive. Rational Sustainability Builds on Evidence and Analysis. Rational Sustainability Recognizes Diminishing Returns and Trade-Offs. Rational Sustainability Sets Boundaries. Rational Sustainability Guards Against Irrationality. Rational Sustainability Challenges and Questions. I now go through these 10 features in turn. The goal of Rational Sustainability is to create sustainable – that is, long-term – value. Creating sustainable profits, companies, economies, and societies should be of interest to everyone, irrespective of their job title, their political persuasion, or their age. In contrast, ESG is widely seen as being of interest only to ESG executives, those on the left, and the young. It is surprising that some Republicans wish to ban ESG on the grounds that they are the party of big business, when considering environmental, social and governance factors can help companies become more successful, more profitable, and more innovative. ESG, at its core, is the expansion of an investor's information set to incorporate environmental, social, and governance factors. Increasing information should never make an investor worse off, as it can be discarded if it has no value.8 It is true that ESG is sometimes used to pursue different objectives, such as ticking ESG boxes as Principle #2 will discuss. However, ESG can instead be used to pursue the same objective (value creation) in a more informed manner. There should be no controversy about investors using more information. In my second 2023 article, “Applying Economics – Not Gut Feel – To ESG,” I argued that the term “ESG” has become so politicized that it prevents clear-headed thinking; as a result, we sometimes need to remove it from a sentence and evaluate what remains in order to make logical assessments. Some critics argue that considering ESG risks is inconsistent with fiduciary duty, but this is illogical since considering risks is an essential part of fiduciary duty. Such politicization is unlikely to be the case with sustainability, because “sustainable” simply means “long-term.” Lawmakers are unlikely to seek to punish the consideration of sustainability risks with 20 years in prison, and are even less likely to ban the consideration of long-term risks or rationality. In my book Grow the Pie,9 I argued that the term “sustainable” is so uncontroversial that it is somewhat bland; almost all companies seek to be sustainable.10 I wrote that “a stakeholder-focused company is often described as ‘sustainable,’ but ‘sustainable’ simply means ‘long-term.’ ESV [Enlightened Shareholder Value, the pursuit of purely financial goals] could be called ‘sustainable’ as it also takes a long-term approach, albeit to maximize profits rather than social value. We'll thus not use ‘sustainable’ in this book.” But I wrote all that before the recent politicization of ESG, and I've had to update my view. Advocates and critics have become so caught up in cheerleading and criticizing ESG, or scoring points against the other side, that they've lost sight of the shared goal – to create long-term value. Today's environment calls for a bland term that goes back to basics. The current practice of ESG gives special status to something just because it can be called ESG. ESG funds attract inflows even if not justified by performance; business schools boost their league table ranking by reporting more hours of ESG teaching; some investors, employees and customers put more weight on a company's ESG claims than delivering great returns, being a great place to work, or offering great products. Certain ESG advocates argue that the label should be expanded so that more activities can Some it to with an for as they are to be a of argue that any should for I was a at an ESG an we using such an term and advocated the of may up in an to and to just as some more on to rather than being Such can the of In a recent three that, the of ESG only of the investment assets in A Journal of article that, when a fund its to a current it inflows no in and irrespective of whether its its new Rational Sustainability is with not The goal of sustainability is to create long-term a fund that “ESG” to its without changing its or is not investing more A fund that ESG to its and its is also not investing more if those do not long-term Rational Sustainability also both and It by the need to consider any that sustainable value, even if it does not fall under an ESG label – such as productivity, innovation and It by against a simply because it under the ESG if it does not create sustainable value. Rational Sustainability may be to “long-term as the of the need to consider factors that may have is such a on is that are benefits from being called ESG – funds inflows and companies attract is not so ESG but being seen to do so. should instead would do The might be for many ESG since their only is In contrast, a word that is often with is we have and Sustainability is pursued for – that is, because it's for It allows and to for even to ESG of its In should be no need for the ESG to have should to in – including ESG – that long-term value, just as improve a company's productivity, innovation, and culture, even though no However, for ESG is that the financial benefits of ESG are to no the ESG objective could an to make an investment because of its ESG and those benefits in financial returns. But because these returns to financial might not have justified the launched the in for the social from financial in but was to this into a financial by a of instead ESG is pursued for reasons, this the that ESG does not improve any of the ESG metrics that companies are such as or It would have never under an to ESG. Sustainability a company to create long-term value, irrespective of whether it will a for so. sustainable value is widely as being the of business. us that value is the value of all any business should be by its long-term Sustainability is thus the of a irrespective of job In contrast, ESG is often as a In some the investment on long-term ESG is a by a separate so that they can clients they are They to fund managers to have at least a at the ESG rather than for the Sustainability recognizes the of a company's impact on because many of those will and its The may be by a separate its and may be the but such are and would be even if the fund managers could not their A word often used with and “ESG” is which I advocated in Grow the I to believe in the of to financial and social value. However, at least as has to a the up with a that has little on a company's decisions. for up with a for when it is more than and claims that believe that can change the but it is whether believe this if they it would any corporate has no I've to the goal of sustainability as “long-term but about what this value it purely financial value, or does it social And if it which objectives, and financial value should be to for In “The End of ESG,” I argued that ESG investing is often just because an investor should consider all factors relevant for long-term returns, both ESG and However, I that way in which ESG investing is not investing is that investors may have objectives, such as and creating Rational Sustainability allows for such goals. The value that it can be a of financial and social value, and thus it to the former for the However, Rational Sustainability from ESG in three any are pursued in a sustainable the goal is a of long-term financial and social value. and by irrespective of their may improve a company's but in the term as those do not and The company itself worse its to in the also lose any are pursued in a This recognizing diminishing returns and as Principle will in more with financial returns. It can be entirely to in the of diminishing – even – financial returns because financial returns are not only However, investors should be of the so that they the financial that they are The also those with other returns, such as the that may lead to a of also using evidence to the that are in creating social returns, rather than from all companies because that it would be Rational Sustainability the need to be about any objectives. To achieve long-term need to state what those it what employees should it and allows customers to go if not A fund may to financial returns to address but it to make this in its rather than that a if the fund ends up clients may their as they The consideration also guards against the of an Some ESG advocates ESG based on claims that ESG financial often up by research ESG and stock returns. this research has to be to or they sometimes that was never the for ESG it was to the evidence is that social and impact is they sometimes the for ESG is to in companies that Rational Sustainability the of being about The of Rational Sustainability that the of “long-term value” is an about which can be legitimate Republicans and and that some politicization be Republicans might long-term value as financial value, may argue that it should also social value. There may also be legitimate about which social should be and their However, should be less that, are they should be pursued in a and sustainable manner. The next the features of In should be no need for such because should – just as in theory should be no need to sustainability since should think However, is widespread evidence of in many other and is likely even more for sustainability Sustainability advocates may believe that sustainability is may think it is of is in the of and A of sustainability often by with research and goal is a boost rather than the They it by what to – that sustainability performance. these are up by who the even if the is In my 2024 I the in which fall for are about a study that does not a study but any analysis; the the of what their the sustainability or performance; the of and only the that and the when is only a so that it that would fall for – could believe a when the the – but goes out of the when is at In contrast, are out of as study out of or as being A look at the that the evidence is more than either Some ESG factors are with long-term financial returns, such as corporate and However, even those may not be corporate governance is with returns in does not lead to in with and ESG only returns in In contrast, some of the factors that ESG advocates are about may have no or a with returns. that more and these returns from not they are not to different that diversity is with company but they from a of the evidence a or diversity and company than being by and to or attract a is to use to practice sustainability more that factors are not to financial allows to on the that are goal is or financial it may to go and more of sustainability than the in the The of a diversity and need not that has no value, only that diversity is a of In a 2023 my and I that a of which and is to financial In to a to the Rational Sustainability a to and goes out of the when considering ESG, it as a that the need to – for the that a fund should to their ESG and in to their ESG Rational Sustainability ESG any other as a the same to an ESG study as to any other a investor an ESG stock to its just any other A company could be but the risks could be more than it could be but to a bubble. to the of sustainability is that the is because is no such as Sustainability – for and the – is a so it be Such an the goal with the if the goal is it can be pursued in either or irrational and are seen as but can have irrational irrational and irrational ESG and sustainability are not that the of or the of and are to A second is that it is to may think it's to pursue only financial returns, and to seek a of financial and social returns. However, this the goal with the It is entirely to have if they are pursued in This has in the in their of and that are this does not that they are irrational in any it is not irrational for to from other than is it irrational for to these when But do we being in the all information into and to may in many such as information that and information that does not that is only way to information. There may be legitimate as to whether an ESG will or returns, if no research has on the topic. information is means it as and for in rather than it in a way that about In January 2024, I was sustainable with investors, and of They whether a investment should have more than a whether to the of to as many as They saw the value of sustainability but the diminishing returns to as as the – both in the to for and investing the and to I described their as “Rational sustainability a or just because it is as if it sustainable and has benefits rather than just ticking a will be to it – financial of the and of from other activities that create financial or social value. In more is not as with any returns are diminishing and can Rational Sustainability recognizes that sustainability factors are to the same of as It us to look at the big – rather than with the to back and consider the This to apply even if goal is more than financial returns. the financial is to whether the social is to the financial rather than ploughing ahead because social returns are a Principle highlighted that, if consider a ESG factor, more is not This the that a of ESG factors is not sustainability to as many ESG boxes as The more the ESG will and the less likely that customers will for to their Rational Sustainability recognizes that, a company has to for financial or social are should not be if its the of if its from A company is not for all of or all the of Rational Sustainability It a for what a company's should and should not This in decisions on to allocate capital, and A company can be for delivering on the that it has set such it is not an should or what investors should In Grow the I criteria to such is a company should on those sustainability activities in which it has should in since it has it should not to because it has no special to evaluate which are or A second is a company's only goal is financial returns, this business a company should those that are for its business should in such as which the for its but are less a company's goal social returns, this also the its and about for the that to be in the criteria are not the only set of legitimate may their own but some criteria are decisions are The that sustainability is not to that is relevant for sustainability is pile into something because is so. to on ESG irrespective of companies and to issues without thinking about their customers, and investors on the latest fad. of the latter is the big that in so about the sustainability of – their to financial returns and address change – that they up the of to up the of company to an value for the even under the for the of However, investors this in their A second is the which to seek the of a even if its is As an for even if the of a is to it to In a sustainability many companies have up to be to the of However, as a can be as a without company being Some such as will be for other such as it is to be without the use of and has and is inconsistent with In to against own Rational Sustainability allows investors to exploit – sustainable companies that are or sustainable companies that are because they do not ESG might whether it is – sustainable, even – to exploit funds with ESG to on that ESG might be seen as This is I have to rather than in financial who to when they could buy funds should that they are with more for corporate the will companies from when the is and a sustainable companies will help the their value. Principle highlighted the can lead to and It can decisions by to just because is many companies have up for without even what or with the it is not whether it is to thus as to to the it is to to but may be used in and may use from it is not whether company to be even if should whether have the financial of a in and whether and social beyond is a than Principle highlighted the of back and looking at the big of a – its as as its and back even and looking at the big of the the is to in 2023 the Financial a to the diversity of a company's under the that their is to of financial to But if this is their the is to the of of financial to customers, not the diversity of employees which is far However, calls to diversity from and the of following in other a may on so without what it is a and whether a would it more This article has “Rational Sustainability” as an alternative to ESG – a term and set of practices that with and but has to achieve this to by true believers, by and of the ESG by opportunists and Rational Sustainability is goal is long-term sustainable value, not political it that long-term value irrespective of whether it is labelled it is pursued by companies even if they it is as a not as a and it different of value. Rational Sustainability is also is based on evidence and clear-headed analysis; it recognizes diminishing returns and trade-offs; it rather than thinking that it guards against own and on and it and questions rather than the Rational Sustainability has the to create long-term value for and the that ESG
