Title: Spatiotemporal Assessment of Land Marketization and Its Driving Forces for Sustainable Urban–Rural Development in Shaanxi Province in China
Authors: Xindong Wei, Ning Wang, Pingping Luo, Jie Yang, Jian Zhang, Kangli Lin
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13147755
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3193964629

Abstract:
In recent years, market-oriented allocation of land has been promoted to support rural revitalization and urban–rural integrated development. To follow the path of sustainable development, it is necessary to improve the efficiency of resource utilization and to rationally allocate and use resources on the premise of ensuring the sustainable use of resources. This study aims to measure the degree of land marketization in Shaanxi Province, China during the period 2008–2019 and analyze its driving forces. The methods used include Gray Relation Analysis and Hot Spot Analysis. The MK trend method was used to analyze the average area of land acquired through Bidding–Listing–Auction (B-L-A), protocol, and allocation methods. The results show that the land marketization level in Shaanxi declined from 2008 to 2014 and fluctuated upwards from 2014 to 2019. In addition, B-L-A transactions increased across the province. There was little spatial heterogeneity of land marketization, but southern Shaanxi had less land marketization than the other key areas. Urbanization, non-agricultural output, and foreign direct investment were found to be the main driving factors of land marketization, while the influence of fixed asset investment and per capita disposable income declined each year. Based on these findings, we suggest that there is a need for land management reforms and urbanization efforts to encourage land marketization in southern Shaanxi. Further, we suggest that northern Shaanxi would benefit from optimizing the land use structure and focusing on the energy land market. This study also provides theoretical support for realizing the reform of the marketization of national land elements, the healthy operation of urban land marketization, and sustainable urban and rural development.
