Title: Circular Mining Wastes Management for Sustainable Production of Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze
Authors: L. S. Malyukova, Nikita V. Martyushev, Valeriya Tynchenko, Viktor V. Kondratiev, V V Bukhtoyarov, Vladimir Yu. Konyukhov, K A Bashmur, Tatyana Panfilova, Vladimir Brigida
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151511671
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385342393

Abstract:
Mining operations have a significant negative impact on the surrounding ecosystems. The operation of mines and quarries creates a large amount of waste that accumulate and are practically unrecyclable in the environment. The involvement of these wastes in economic activity is an extremely urgent task. This can make the economy more sustainable and reduce its influence on ecosystems. This work presents the attempts of using quarry wastes as a fertilizer applied for growing tea crops. The novelty of this research involves revealing the quarry wastes as a fertilizer when growing Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze and assessing changes in the productivity of this plant when applying these calcium wastes. The waste of a quarry intended for extracting crushed stone was studied in this article. The composition of the waste was analyzed. Fertilizers used for manuring the soil were prepared based on the waste. Two experimental sites were selected. One of them was a control, where Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze was grown without using fertilizers. Fertilizers obtained from the waste were applied on the second site. The experimental work proceeded for 10 years. When discussing the results, special attention was paid to climatic conditions. This was caused by the need to show that it was the use of the fertilizer that influenced the change in the yield, not the climatic conditions. As a result of using calcium fertilizers based on the waste, the productivity of Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze was increased. The application of the fertilizers based on the quarry wastes was shown to provide an increase in the yield. The possibility of using calcium fertilizers to overcome unfavorable agroclimatic conditions during the tea cultivation was also demonstrated. To assess the climatic impact of applying new fertilizers, three-dimensional modeling in the “gnuplot v.5.4” software was used. As a result, an increase in the average annual precipitation, from 1000 to 1980 mm/year, in the range of the average annual air temperature, from 14 to 16 °C, was found to lead to an increase (when using a new fertilizer) in the yield of Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze up to 4.8 times (from 20 to 95 centner/ha). The results have shown that applying fertilizers based on the quarry wastes is also possible in unfavorable climatic conditions.
