Title: Green Logistics 5.0: a review of sustainability-oriented innovation with foundation models in logistics
Authors: Bernardo Nicoletti, Andrea Appolloni
Year: 2024
Venue: European Journal of Innovation Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ejim-07-2024-0787
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403878419

Abstract:
Purpose The paper uses foundation models to integrate the green approach in Logistics 5.0. Such integration is innovative in logistics and leads to a more sustainable and prosperous future. By harnessing the power of foundation models and incorporating sustainable principles, this paper can systematize the logistics industry’s environmental framework, increase its social responsibility and ensure its long-term economic viability. Design/methodology/approach Generalizing environmental sustainability goals requires a multi-layered innovation approach incorporating corporate philosophy, products, processes and business models. In this paper, this comprehensive approach is not just a strategy but a necessity in the current global context. This paper uses the sustainability-oriented innovation (SOI) method, crucial for achieving explicit environmental, social and economic impacts. Findings Artificial intelligence, especially foundation models, can contribute to green logistics by optimizing routes, reducing packaging waste, improving warehouse layouts and other functions presented in the paper. At the same time, they can also consider social, economic and governance goals. Research limitations/implications Artificial intelligence algorithms present challenges such as high initial investment, regulatory compliance and technological integration. Practical implications The paper contains implications for developing environmentally sustainable logistics, which is currently one of the most significant challenges. The framework presented can apply to logistics companies. Originality/value This paper fulfills an identified need to study sustainability in logistics. The framework is entirely original and not present in the literature. It is essential to help design and implement innovative logistics approaches.
