Title: How Does Information and Communication Technology Affect Geothermal Energy Sustainability?
Authors: Mohd Alsaleh, Xiaohui Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15021071
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313824443

Abstract:
There are many advantages of geothermal energy, as an environmentally friendly resource, with some other problems to be addressed before the full potential of this sustainable and renewable resource, which is natural, could be harnessed. This research will aim to examine what effect ICT, that is, information and communication technology factors with sustainability in the economy, has on geothermal energy output among the considered 27 EU nations within the time frame 1990 to 2021. The novelty of this research is the ability to clarify the role of ICT toward geothermal power sustainability in the EU27 region. As well as the magnitude of effects of ICT on the geothermal power sustainability in EU13 developing countries and EU14 developed countries using the ARDL estimator. Autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) was adopted, and the findings show that a significant increase in the geothermal energy industry sustainability can occur in EU14 emerged economies using ICT factors than among the 13 emerging economies. Among additional factors, human capital, economic sustainability, and institutional quality contribute more positively to geothermal energy sustainability in EU14 emerging economies than in EU13 emerging economies. Similarly, further results show that a remarkable decrease in carbon dioxide emissions can occur in EU13 emerging economies using geothermal energy output than in EU14 emerged economies. All these results outputs are an indication that geothermal power sustainability among the European Union countries could be remarkably boosted by increasing the level of ICT determinants to attain the 2030 energy union goals. This study recommends that the considered European countries should prioritize the good functionality of ICT indicators in attaining societal objectives and that of the environment as well.
