Title: Environmental, social and economic factors in sustainable development with food, energy and eco-space aspect security
Authors: Piotr F. Borowski, Iaroslav Patuk
Year: 2021
Venue: Present Environment and Sustainable Development
DOI: https://doi.org/10.15551/pesd2021151012
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3183045505

Abstract:
Sustainable development is now a key factor in the global economy. Sustainable development is a process that leads to the satisfaction of the current needs of people and at the same time goes towards further development without destroying and limiting the possibilities of meeting the needs of future generations. Therefore, joint efforts should be made as soon as possible to build a sustainable and safe future for all people and the planet as a whole. Therefore, it is important to promote and support sustainable development by managing natural resources and ecosystems and the entire environment including people. The presented research was done on-site in African and European countries (Egypt, Ethiopia, Guinea, Turkey, and Poland) to determine their level of sustainable development. The level of sustainable development was determined by selected indicators from the Human Development Index. The level of sustainable development was determined by selected indicators from the Human Development Index. In this study, the authors used basic methods of social and economic research as follows: (1) market observation, (2) primary research on-site and (3) secondary research and the use of statistical analysis (Pearson Correlation). These methods were used to define the social and scientific problems and identify factors that affected a country's sustainable development. The main scientific problem, addressed by the study was undertaken in order to help facilitate a outcome on the energy, food and agricultural sectors connected with climate change and environmental law. It was found that there is an extremely strong positive correlation (from 0.8 to 1.0), and a very strong negative correlation (from -0.8 to -1.0) between the levels of a country’s age share, CO2 emissions, renewable energy consumption, and natural resources depletion.
