Title: Emerging paradigms in sustainable shellfish aquaculture: Microalgae and biofloc technologies for wastewater treatment
Authors: Wan Adibah Wan Mahari, Khor Waiho, Hanafiah Fazhan, Elfina Azwar, Alexander Chong Shu‐Chien, Mursal Abdulkadir Hersi, Nor Azman Kasan, S. Foo, Kum Yih Wong, Ahmad Shuhaimi Draman, Nyuk Ling, Jo‐Shu Chang, Cheng‐Di Dong, Su Shiung Lam
Year: 2024
Venue: Aquaculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aquaculture.2024.740835
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392969985

Abstract:
Shellfish aquaculture is a global industry that provides valuable source of seafood and protein for human consumption. However, the cultivation of shellfish generates significant amounts of pollutants and wastewater, bringing negative impacts on the aquatic environment . This review provides an in-depth exploration of the shellfish aquaculture system and the potential environmental impacts of the operation and the resulting wastewater for shellfish and ecosystems. This is followed by discussion on current technologies and practices used to treat shellfish wastewater, highlighting the importance of using sustainable approaches to reduce the environmental footprint of shellfish aquaculture industry. This review also provides a comprehensive review of the recent advances in microalgae and biofloc technologies for bioremediation of wastewater, exploring its principles, benefits, and potential implications for the aquaculture industry. By shedding light on this innovative technology, the aim is to promote further research in the field of sustainable wastewater treatment for aquaculture industry towards achieving food security. • Environmental impacts of shellfish aquaculture are reviewed. • Sustainable approaches to reduce environmental footprint of aquaculture are reviewed. • Nutrient removal pathways in improving water quality are discussed. • Envisioning a symbiotic relationship to foster the revitalization of aquatic environments. • Microalgae and biofloc are emerging technologies for sustainable growth of shellfish.
