Title: A systematic assessment of multi‐dimensional risk factors for sustainable development in food grain supply chains: A business strategic prospective analysis
Authors: Sumanta Das, Abhiram Yadav Myla, Akhilesh Barve, Anil Kumar, Naresh Chandra Sahu, Kamalakanta Muduli, Sunil Luthra
Year: 2023
Venue: Business Strategy and the Environment
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.3435
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4367041000

Abstract:
Abstract The food grain supply chain (FGSC) is composed of several links, stretching from the point of production to the point of consumption. A broken connection might produce a food catastrophe. The structural imbalance of India's FGSC is an obstacle to achieving sustainability; this has to be addressed if the country is to preserve national food security. This present study aims to develop a systematic assessment of the risks and the priority of risk‐mitigating solutions in attaining sustainability in the Indian FGSC. Multiple groups of individuals and businesses involved in the FGSC have been surveyed and interviewed, with their responses analyzed. A total of 31 risk factors and 11 risk‐reduction strategies are identified. Further, the identified risk factors are classified into five‐dimensional sustainability criteria (environmental, economic, institutional, technical, and social) by using exploratory factor analysis (EFA). Then, a fuzzy analytical hierarchy process (FAHP), combined with the fuzzy technique for order performance by similarity to ideal solution (FTOPSIS) method, is adopted to find the most critical risk factors and choose the best course of strategies for risk mitigation. The study finds that inability to incorporate advanced technology imposes the highest risk to sustainability followed by natural disasters. Ensuring end‐to‐end computerization using advanced technology like agri 4.0 is the need of the hour in intercepting the range of FGSC risks. The results may help policymakers create a comprehensive risk mitigation plan and taxonomy to increase supply chain resilience.
