Title: Sustainability in Higher Education Institutions in Pakistan: A Systematic Review of Progress and Challenges
Authors: Preeta Hinduja, Razia Fakir Mohammad, Sohni Siddiqui, Shahnaz Noor, Altaf Hussain
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15043406
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4320496941

Abstract:
Sustainability is a global problem that invites researchers and teachers to integrate sustainability concerns into curricula. The analysis discussed in this paper is grounded in a synthesis of research papers and documents that analyzes the current status of the initiatives taken to achieve sustainability in education in the context of Pakistan. Through content analyses of 26 studies made in higher education, this study discusses the progress and challenges in achieving Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) in Pakistani Higher Education Institutions. Most of the studies reviewed were open access and published by HEC (Higher Education Commission) Pakistan in recognized national and international journals. This review shows how education contributes to transformation by highlighting the contribution of different stakeholders, i.e., administrators and leaders (eight studies) and teachers and students (fifteen studies). It also highlights governance, communication and coordination among stakeholders (eleven studies), campus outreach (five studies), and significant challenges in achieving sustainability (seven studies). The analysis provides a basis for the consideration of logistical support and quality education (SDG #4) to progress toward the SDGs. This analysis will help educators and managers in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to reflect on their practices, leading to Sustainable Development (SD). In addition to this, this study will help policy makers and curriculum developers to identify key challenges in meeting sustainable development goals. Also, this will enable researchers to identify gaps in the literature when framing their research questions.
