Title: Fungal endophyte bioinoculants as a green alternative towards sustainable agriculture
Authors: Itika Sharma, Ashish Raina, Malvi Choudhary, Apra, Sanjana Kaul, Manoj K. Dhar
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e19487
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386170832

Abstract:
Over the past half century, limited use of synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, and conservation of the environment and natural resources have become the interdependent goals of sustainable agriculture. These practices support agriculture sustainability with less environmental and climatic impacts. Therefore, there is an upsurge in the need to introduce compatible booster methods for maximizing net production. The best straightforward strategy is to explore and utilize plant-associated beneficial microorganisms and their products. Bioinoculants are bioformulations consisting of selected microbial strains on a suitable carrier used in the enhancement of crop production. Fungal endophytes used as bioinoculants confer various benefits to the host, such as protection against pathogens by eliciting immune response, mineralization of essential nutrients, and promoting plant growth. Besides, they also produce various bioactive metabolites, phytohormones, and volatile organic compounds. To design various bioformulations, transdisciplinary approaches like genomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and microbiome modulation strategies like gene editing and metabolic reconstruction have been explored. These studies will refine the existing knowledge on the diversity, phylogeny and beneficial traits of the microbes. This will also help in synthesizing microbial consortia by evaluating the role of structural and functional elements of communities in a controlled manner. The present review summarizes the beneficial aspects associated with fungal endophytes for capitalizing agricultural outputs, enlists various multi-omics techniques for understanding and modulating the mechanism involved in endophytism and the generation of new bioformulations for providing novel solutions for the enhancement of crop production.
