Title: Sustainable Generation of Sulfate Radicals and Decontamination of Micropollutants via Sequential Electrochemistry
Authors: Wentian Zheng, Shijie You, Yuan Yao, Nanqi Ren, Bin Ding, Fang Li, Yanbiao Liu
Year: 2023
Venue: Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eng.2022.12.005
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4315474738

Abstract:
• A system that runs solely on sulfate by sequential electrochemistry was proposed. • The circular transformation of SO 4 2– → S 2 O 8 2– → SO 4 •– → SO 4 2– can be achieved. • Ultra-fast degradation of selected contaminants can be achieved within 2 sec. • The system implemented green chemistry principle to decontaminate diverse micropollutants. The removal of emerging micropollutants in the aquatic environment remains a global challenge. Conventional routes are often chemically, energetically, and operationally intensive, which decreases their sustainability during applications. Herein, we develop an advanced chemical-free strategy for micropollutants decontamination that is solely based on sequential electrochemistry involving ubiquitous sulfate anions in natural and engineered waters. This can be achieved via a chain reaction initiated by electrocatalytic anodic sulfate (SO 4 2− ) oxidation to produce persulfate (S 2 O 8 2− ) and followed by a cathodic persulfate reduction to produce sulfate radicals (SO 4 ̇− ). These SO 4 ̇− are powerful reactive species that enable the unselective degradation of micropollutants and yield SO 4 2− again in the treated water. The proposed flow-through electrochemical system achieves the efficient degradation (100.0%) and total organic carbon removal (65.0%) of aniline under optimized conditions with a single-pass mode. We also reveal the effectiveness of the proposed system for the degradation of a wide array of emerging micropollutants over a broad pH range and in complex matrices. This work provides the first proof-of-concept demonstration using ubiquitous sulfate for micropollutants decontamination, making water purification more sustainable and more economical.
