Title: Fibrogenic signals persist in DAA-treated HCV patients after sustained virological response
Authors: Claudia Montaldo, Michela Terri, Veronica Riccioni, Cecilia Battistelli, Veronica Bordoni, Gianpiero D’Offizi, Maria G. Prado, Flavia Trionfetti, Tiziana Vescovo, Eleonora Tartaglia, Raffaele Strippoli, Chiara Agrati, Marco Tripodi
Year: 2021
Venue: Journal of Hepatology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhep.2021.07.003
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3178660840

Abstract:
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patients with HCV who achieve a sustained virological response (SVR) on direct-acting antiviral (DAA) therapy still need to be monitored for signs of liver disease progression. To this end, the identification of both disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets is necessary. METHODS: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) purified from plasma of 15 healthy donors (HDs), and 16 HCV-infected patients before (T0) and after (T6) DAA treatment were utilized for functional and miRNA cargo analysis. EVs purified from plasma of 17 HDs and 23 HCV-infected patients (T0 and T6) were employed for proteomic and western blot analyses. Functional analysis in LX2 cells measured fibrotic markers (mRNAs and proteins) in response to EVs. Structural analysis was performed by qPCR, label-free liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and western blot. RESULTS: fold change of 4.4). CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results highlight structural EV modifications that are conceivably causal for long-term liver disease progression in patients with HCV despite DAA-mediated SVR. LAY SUMMARY: Direct-acting antivirals lead to virological cure in the majority of patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection. However, the risk of liver disease progression or complications in patients with fibrosis and cirrhosis remains in some patients even after virological cure. Herein, we show that extracellular vesicle modifications could be linked to long-term liver disease progression in patients who have achieved virological cure; these modifications could potentially be used as biomarkers or treatment targets in such patients.
