Title: Mulching as a Sustainable Water and Soil Saving Practice in Agriculture: A Review
Authors: Hossam S. El‐Beltagi, Abdul Basıt, Heba I. Mohamed, Iftikhar Ali, Sana Ullah, E. A. Kamel, Tarek Shalaby, Khaled M. A. Ramadan, Abdulmalik A. Alkhateeb, Hesham S. Ghazzawy
Year: 2022
Venue: Agronomy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy12081881
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4292476218

Abstract:
This research was carried out in order to demonstrate that mulching the ground helps to conserve water, because agricultural sustainability in dryland contexts is threatened by drought, heat stress, and the injudicious use of scarce water during the cropping season by minimizing surface evaporation. Improving soil moisture conservation is an ongoing priority in crop outputs where water resources are restricted and controlled. One of the reasons for the desire to use less water in agriculture is the rising demand brought on by the world’s growing population. In this study, the use of organic or biodegradable mulches was dominated by organic materials, while inorganic mulches are mostly comprised of plastic-based components. Plastic film, crop straw, gravel, volcanic ash, rock pieces, sand, concrete, paper pellets, and livestock manures are among the materials put on the soil surface. Mulching has several essential applications, including reducing soil water loss and soil erosion, enriching soil fauna, and improving soil properties and nutrient cycling in the soil. It also reduces the pH of the soil, which improves nutrient availability. Mulching reduces soil deterioration by limiting runoff and soil loss, and it increases soil water availability by reducing evaporation, managing soil temperature, or reducing crop irrigation requirements. This review paper extensively discusses the benefits of organic or synthetic mulches for crop production, as well as the uses of mulching in soil and water conservation. As a result, it is very important for farmers to choose mulching rather than synthetic applications.
