Title: Twenty Years of Mobile Banking Services Development and Sustainability: A Bibliometric Analysis Overview (2000–2020)
Authors: Ayman Abdalmajeed Alsmadi, Ahmed Shuhaiber, Loai Alhawamdeh, Rasha Alghazzawi, Manaf Al‐Okaily
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su141710630
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4293548579

Abstract:
The current paper aims to analyze the keywords related to mobile banking (otherwise known as m-banking) issues by focusing on its development from 2000 to 2020, of which the first publication about this issue appeared in the Scopus database. This paper explored and analyzed 1206 research papers using the Scopus database. Bibliometric analysis and content analysis had been conducted through Excel and VOS viewer software to obtain the results. In addition, the findings of this paper reveal that the universal trends and increased production at a global level led to many changes, and the most rampant topic associated with m-banking in most periods is mobile telecommunication systems. By showcasing the creation of the key terms in m-banking, it was possible to identify significant changes in the development of the field’s key terminologies. Therefore, it is important to follow up on the development in future decades, particularly how the recent universal occurrences have influenced the changes in m-banking use at a global level. Moreover, the present study makes a significant contribution to the literature by providing a framework for future research. The framework provides opportunities for researchers to explore the research streams in future research. Finally, the current paper is the first of its kind in its method of contribution, ad according to the research databases (Scopus, Google Scholar, etc.), no work was witnessed in the published literature covering m-banking in a detailed and comprehensive multi-period manner and in such an applied method. In addition, the current paper fills this gap by conducting a bibliometric analysis and content analysis.
