Title: Sustained increases in atmospheric oxygen and marine productivity in the Neoproterozoic and Palaeozoic eras
Authors: Richard Stockey, Devon B. Cole, Úna C. Farrell, Heda Agić, Thomas H. Boag, Jochen J. Brocks, Donald E. Canfield, Meng Cheng, Peter W. Crockford, Huan Cui, Tais W. Dahl, Lucas Del Mouro, Keith Dewing, Stephen Q. Dornbos, Joseph F. Emmings, Robert R. Gaines, Timothy M. Gibson, Benjamin C. Gill, Geoffrey J. Gilleaudeau, Karin Goldberg, Romain Guilbaud, Galen P. Halverson, Emma U. Hammarlund, Kalev Hantsoo, Miles A. Henderson, Charles M. Henderson, Malcolm S.W. Hodgskiss, A.J.M. Jarrett, David T. Johnston, Pavel Kabanov, Julien Kimmig, Andrew H. Knoll, Marcus Kunzmann, Matthew A. LeRoy, Chao Li, David K. Loydell, Francis A. Macdonald, Joseph M. Magnall, N. Tanner Mills, Lawrence M. Och, Brennan O’Connell, Anaïs Pagès, Shanan E. Peters, Susannah M. Porter, Simon W. Poulton, Samantha R. Ritzer, Alan D. Rooney, Shane D. Schoepfer, Emily F. Smith, Justin V. Strauss, Gabriel Jubé Uhlein, Tristan White, Rachel Wood, Christina R. Woltz, I. A. Yurchenko, Noah J. Planavsky, Erik A. Sperling
Year: 2024
Venue: Nature Geoscience
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-024-01479-1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400248620

Abstract:
Abstract A geologically rapid Neoproterozoic oxygenation event is commonly linked to the appearance of marine animal groups in the fossil record. However, there is still debate about what evidence from the sedimentary geochemical record—if any—provides strong support for a persistent shift in surface oxygen immediately preceding the rise of animals. We present statistical learning analyses of a large dataset of geochemical data and associated geological context from the Neoproterozoic and Palaeozoic sedimentary record and then use Earth system modelling to link trends in redox-sensitive trace metal and organic carbon concentrations to the oxygenation of Earth’s oceans and atmosphere. We do not find evidence for the wholesale oxygenation of Earth’s oceans in the late Neoproterozoic era. We do, however, reconstruct a moderate long-term increase in atmospheric oxygen and marine productivity. These changes to the Earth system would have increased dissolved oxygen and food supply in shallow-water habitats during the broad interval of geologic time in which the major animal groups first radiated. This approach provides some of the most direct evidence for potential physiological drivers of the Cambrian radiation, while highlighting the importance of later Palaeozoic oxygenation in the evolution of the modern Earth system.
