Title: Advances in Triboelectric Nanogenerators for Sustainable and Renewable Energy: Working Mechanism, Tribo-Surface Structure, Energy Storage-Collection System, and Applications
Authors: Van-Long Trinh, C.K. Chung
Year: 2023
Venue: Processes
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/pr11092796
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386933710

Abstract:
Triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs) are emerging as a form of sustainable and renewable technology for harvesting wasted mechanical energy in nature, such as motion, waves, wind, and vibrations. TENG devices generate electricity through the cyclic working principle of contact and separation of tribo-material couples. This technology is used in outstanding applications in energy generation, human care, medicinal, biomedical, and industrial applications. TENG devices can be applied in many practical applications, such as portable power, self-powered sensors, electronics, and electric consumption devices. With TENG energy technologies, significant energy issues can be reduced or even solved in the near future, such as reducing gas emissions, increasing environmental protection, and improving human health. The performance of TENGs can be enhanced by utilizing materials with a significant contrast in their triboelectrical characteristics or by implementing advanced structural designs. This review comprehensively examines the recent advancements in TENG technologies for harnessing mechanical waste energy sources, with a primary focus on their sustainability and renewable energy attributes. It also delves into topics such as optimizing tribo-surface structures to enhance output performance, implementing energy storage systems to ensure stable operation and prolonged usage, exploring energy collection systems for efficient management of harvested energy, and highlighting practical applications of TENG in various contexts. The results indicate that TENG technologies have the potential to be widely applied in sustainable energy generation, renewable energy, industry, and human care in the near future.
