Title: The multifaceted roles of Trichoderma in managing rice diseases for enhanced productivity and sustainability
Authors: Dedat Prismantoro, Sulistya Ika Akbari, Nandang Permadi, Utpal Dey, Azwir Anhar, Mia Miranti, Muhamad Shakirin Mispan, Febri Doni
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Agriculture and Food Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jafr.2024.101324
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401126796

Abstract:
Rice ( Oryza sativa L.) serves as a vital staple crop for the dietary needs of over half of the world's population. However, it faces considerable challenges, especially biotic factors, which have significant implications for both worldwide rice production and food security. Among these challenges, the decline in crop yield due to harmful phytopathogens remains a pressing issue in the rice farming system, underscoring the limitations of existing strategies. Trichoderma spp. are gaining attention as effective biocontrol agents. These endophytic fungi are considered safe and environmentally friendly, with the ability to directly and indirectly inhibit plant pathogens without adverse impacts on humans, wildlife, or the environment. This article presents a comprehensive overview of Trichoderma 's multifaceted roles for controlling rice diseases, exploring the molecular mechanisms underlying rice plant's defense response, the induction of its defensive responses by Trichoderma , and the effectiveness of Trichoderma -based biocontrol strategy in enhancing rice health and fitness. It also serves as a significant resource for advancing knowledge and practices in the field, providing a valuable reference for future research and the application of Trichoderma in sustainable rice production. Lastly, we propose a deeper understanding of sustainable strategies to combat rice disease outbreaks by optimally harnessing the potential of Trichoderma as a biocontrol agent for major rice diseases. • Rice plant cultivation is threatened by phytopathogens, which pose a threat to global rice production. • Trichoderma acts as a promising biocontrol agent, effectively inhibiting phytopathogens without causing negative impacts. • Trichoderma can enhance rice plant's defense and health through the modulation of molecular signaling. • The utilization of Trichoderma in managing major rice diseases offers a sustainable solution for rice cultivation worldwide.
