Title: Environmental sustainability in intensive care: the path forward. An ESICM Green Paper
Authors: Jan J. De Waele, Nicole Hunfeld, Heather Baid, Ricard Ferrer, Katerina Iliopoulou, A Ioan, Marc Léone, Marlies Ostermann, Gaetano Scaramuzzo, Μαρία Θεοδωρακοπούλου, Hugo Touw, Giuseppe Citerio, Lennie Derde, Katia Donadello, Nicole P. Juffermans, Laurą Galarza, Giacomo Grasselli, Salvatore Maurizio Maggiore, Ignacio Martín‐Loeches, Joel Alexandre, Maurizio Cecconi, Élie Azoulay
Year: 2024
Venue: Intensive Care Medicine
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00134-024-07662-7
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403208512

Abstract:
PURPOSE: The European Society of Intensive Care Medicine (ESICM) Green Paper aims to address the challenge of environmental sustainability in intensive care and proposes actionable strategies for integrating sustainability into intensive care unit (ICU) stakeholder actions. METHODS: The ESICM Executive Committee appointed a task force of topic experts and ESICM committee representatives to develop the ESICM Green Paper. The task force convened biweekly from January to June 2024, identifying key domains for environmental sustainability and prioritizing actions. Drafts were iteratively refined and approved by the ESICM Executive Committee. RESULTS: Climate change will impact activities in intensive care in many ways, but also the impact of ICU activities on the environment is considerable; drivers for this include extensive resource use and waste generation in ICUs from energy consumption, use of disposable items, and advanced therapies for critically ill patients. The ESICM Green Paper outlines a structured approach for ICUs to reduce their environmental impact, emphasizing energy efficiency, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement. Furthermore, it endorses the need for awareness and education among healthcare professionals, integration of sustainability into research, and sustainable policies within scientific societies. CONCLUSIONS: The ESICM Green Paper reviewed the relevance of climate change to intensive care and provided suggestions for clinical practice, research, education, and ESICM organizational domains. It underscores that reducing intensive care's ecological footprint can coexist with high-quality patient care. Promoting a resilient, responsible healthcare system is a joint responsibility of all ICU stakeholders.
