Title: Lignin and Nanolignin: Next-Generation Sustainable Materials for Water Treatment
Authors: Camilla H. M. Camargos, Yang Liu, Jennifer C. Jackson, Isabella C. Tanganini, Kelly R. Francisco, Sandra Regina Ceccato‐Antonini, Camila A. Rezende, Andréia Fonseca de Faria
Year: 2025
Venue: ACS Applied Bio Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acsabm.4c01563
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4407366934

Abstract:
Water scarcity, contamination, and lack of sanitation are global issues that require innovations in chemistry, engineering, and materials science. To tackle the challenge of providing high-quality drinking water for a growing population, we need to develop high-performance and multifunctional materials to treat water on both small and large scales. As modern society and science prioritize more sustainable engineering practices, water treatment processes will need to use materials produced from sustainable resources via green chemical routes, combining multiple advanced properties such as high surface area and great affinity for contaminants. Lignin, one of the major components of plants and an abundant byproduct of the cellulose and bioethanol industries, offers a cost-effective and scalable platform for developing such materials, with a wide range of physicochemical properties that can be tailored to improve their performance for target water treatment applications. This review aims to bridge the current gap in the literature by exploring the use of lignin, both as solid bulk or solubilized macromolecules and nanolignin as multifunctional (nano)materials for sustainable water treatment processes. We address the application of lignin-based macro-, micro-, and nanostructured materials in adsorption, catalysis, flocculation, membrane filtration processes, and antimicrobial coatings and composites. Throughout the exploration of recent progress and trends in this field, we emphasize the importance of integrating principles of green chemistry and materials sustainability to advance sustainable water treatment technologies.
