Title: Protected Geographical Indications for EVOO in Tunisia: Towards Environmental, Social, and Economic Sustainable Development
Authors: Maria Lisa Clodoveo, Ahmed Yangui, Mahdi Fendri, Simona Giordano, Pasquale Crupi, Filomena Corbo
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su132011201
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3206020699

Abstract:
In a globalized scenario characterized by cogent challenges, sustainable development represents a fundamental objective, according to the agenda of policymakers. This is particularly true with regard to farming, and those agricultural systems that are fully consistent with sustainability in society (health, employment), environment (methane emission, water resource and so on), and economy (source of wealth). Tunisia is one of the world’s top olive oil-producing countries. It is also the country with the largest certified organic olive-producing areas in the world. Moreover, a larger volume of Tunisian olive oil is produced using nearly organic practices, without actually being certified. Given the growing demand for certified products, Tunisia should strengthen its market position by building on its reputation for sustainable farming, through the promotion and the creation of new geographic indications for EVOO. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the impact of GIs and how such kinds of labeling can be more effective, operational, and sustainable, to support the country’s development strategy in this sector. Through an ad hoc quanti-qualitative analysis of Tunisian olive oil value chain, representative of the natural resources, the deep understanding of cultures and traditions of the country, a comprehensive and precise SWOT analysis carried out on the Tunisian olive sector has been performed. This study bears significance as it depicts a specific roadmap that should allow a better application and extension of GI’s initiatives referring to the three pillars of Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, and by building on the position of Tunisia as an organic origin focusing on five strategic lines: organizational and institutional framework; capacity building improvement; communication and networking roles; the role of TIC and the emergence of new opportunities; financial and support products availability. The final outcome should also aim to shorten the distances between all stakeholders to achieve the goals of the 2030 Agenda in the Mediterranean basin, by removing behavioral and institutional barriers that inhibit the transformations needed to achieve more sustainable economies and societies, by means of a cross-disciplinary dialogue around olive oil chain sustainability and narrowing the gap between research and policymakers.
