Title: A review on plastic waste as sustainable resource in civil engineering applications
Authors: T O Ogundairo, David O. Olukanni, I. I. Akinwumi, D D Adegoke
Year: 2021
Venue: IOP Conference Series Materials Science and Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1088/1757-899x/1036/1/012019
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3146754015

Abstract:
Abstract Plastic wastes are non-biodegradable and can stay in the ecosystem for many decades. It can go through aging processes resulting from physical, chemical, and biological actions with the potential to harm habitats and weaken the life-supporting environment. The overwhelming environmental problem created by the indiscriminate disposal of plastic waste containers has led to a search for comprehensive research work seeking a viable alternative to manage, process and dispose of used plastic containers. Hence, researchers have found alternative use to its recovery. The waste can be recycled, reused or reprocessed as substitutes for construction materials because construction applications take up significant amounts of aggregates and cement. Its use is also applicable in bitumen modification, soil stabilization, geosynthetic materials, bricks, plastic reinforcement, and as natural aggregates, which all assist in reducing the quantity of natural aggregates that can be extracted for use in the construction industry. The review covers the collection of relevant information about plastics, the different types of plastics, their corresponding waste and its application in the construction industry from literature. It also examines plastic waste challenges and its sustainable utilization as a construction material. By changing the production design of plastics, it would proffer better ways to manage plastic waste, clean up and improve our natural environment. This review submits that there is an opportunity for the use of plastic waste as an innovative alternative in the construction industry which can stimulate economic growth and could boost the drive of government towards the achievement of some of the sustainable development goals.
