Title: Sustainable and feasible carbon capture and utilization pathways towards net-zero
Authors: Ha-Jun Yoon, Tesfalem Aregawi Atsbha, Taeksang Yoon, Dong Wan Shin, Jian An, Mohammadamin Zarei, Ali Chérif, Sangwon Suh, Chul‐Jin Lee
Year: 2025
Venue: Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2025.115331
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4406240732

Abstract:
Carbon capture and utilization is an emerging technology used to mitigate CO 2 emissions. Incorporating captured CO 2 as a raw material in the chemical industry provides a sustainable CO 2 reduction approach rather than mere disposal. Existing literature showcases successful experiments demonstrating CO 2 's feasibility as a raw material. However, not all carbon capture and utilization products have the capacity to efficiently utilize substantial amounts of CO 2 or be economically viable. Therefore, this study concentrates on investigating carbon capture and utilization processes, warranting further exploration and comparison with conventional process based on techno-economic feasibility, sustainability, and market potential by proposing novel methodology. Sustainable feasibility index was developed to rank promising carbon capture and utilization processes based on techno-economic, environmental, and market size considerations. Eleven high-potential products were investigated. Acetic acid, formic acid , and calcium formate were identified as the top-ranking products for the base cases. Results from carbon to hydrogen mass ratio indicated decreasing the global warming index of CO 2 have a larger effect compared to decreasing the global warming index of H 2 on overall carbon footprint of the products. Future projections with respect to raw material sources show the changes in CO 2 sources when compared to changes in the hydrogen and electricity sources, have the most significant effects on the levelized cost of the product and global warming index. Additionally, this work seeks to ease the decision-making for stakeholders regarding the selection of feasible and sustainable carbon capture and utilization processes with a detailed comparative investigation. • A sustainable feasibility index (SFI) was developed to rank CCU processes. • The SFI is based on techno-economic, LCA, and market size considerations. • Acetic acid, formic acid, and calcium formate were identified as the top-ranking. • Effect of carbon to hydrogen mass ratio on GWI was investigated. • Changes in CO 2 sources showed substantial effects on CCU product LCP and GWI.
