Title: Development of Sustainable Inhibitors for Corrosion Control
Authors: Muhammad Azhar Ali Khan, Osama M. Irfan, Faramarz Djavanroodi, Muhammad Asad
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159502
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4289731440

Abstract:
Metal degradation due to corrosion is a major challenge in most industries, and its control and prevention has to maintain a balance between efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The rising concern over environmental damage has greatly influenced this domain, as corrosion prevention should comply with the waste regulations of different regions. In this respect, a fundamental question is which modern synthetic materials are more viable from the point of view of their effectiveness. Therefore, this paper is aims to provide an advanced and holistic review of corrosion prevention and control methods. Corrosion prevention techniques have become extensive; however, the literature indicates that polymer coatings, nano-composite coatings, and encapsulation techniques consistently provide the most efficient and feasible outcomes. Therefore, this review article examined the phenomenon of corrosion inhibition mainly from the perspective of these three techniques. Moreover, this research utilized secondary qualitative methods to obtain data and information on comparative techniques. It is found that due to the rapid development of novel materials, corrosion inhibition techniques need to be developed on scales that are more general, so that they could be applied to varying environments. The self-healing coatings are generally based on epoxy-resins incorporated with synthetic compounds such as inhibitor ions, amino-acids, or carboxylic acids. These coatings have become more widespread, especially due to bans on several traditional prevention materials such as compounds of chromium (VI). However, self-healing coatings are comparatively more costly than other techniques because of their method of synthesis and long-term durability. Therefore, although self-healing nanomaterial-based coatings are viable options for limited usage, their utilization in large and complex facilities is limited due to the costs involved. Amino acids and other biological macro-molecules provide another option to attain environmental sustainability and long durability, especially due to their origins being most of naturally occurring compounds such as lignin, cellulose, and proteins.
