Title: Quantification of On-Farm Pomegranate Fruit Postharvest Losses and Waste, and Implications on Sustainability Indicators: South African Case Study
Authors: Ikechukwu Kingsley Opara, Olaniyi Amos Fawole, Candice Kelly, Umezuruike Linus Opara
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13095168
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3157818973

Abstract:
While there is a growing body of scientific knowledge on improved techniques and procedures for the production and handling of quality pomegranate fruit to meet market demand, little is known about the magnitude of losses that occur at the farm and post-farmgate. This study revealed the amount of pomegranate fruit lost on the farm and the causes of loss and estimated the impacts of losses. The direct measurement method, which involved sorting and counting of individual fruit, was used since physical identification of the causes of fruit losses on individual fruit was necessary for data collection. Furthermore, qualitative data were collected by physical observation during harvesting and interaction with farm workers. At the case study farm in Wellington, Western Cape Province of South Africa, a range of 15.3–20.1% of the harvested crop was considered lost, as the quality fell below marketable standards for retail sales. This amounted to an average of 117.76 tonnes of pomegranate fruit harvested per harvest season in the case study farm, which is removed from the value chain and sold mainly at a low value for juicing and other purposes and translates to an estimated R10.5 million ($618,715.34) economic loss to the farmer. Environmental factors are the main causes of on-farm fruit losses. In the three pomegranate cultivars studied, sunburn and crack were identified as the leading cause of fruit loss, accounting for about 43.9% of all on-farm fruit losses. The lost fiber, carbohydrate, protein, iron and ascorbic acid contents associated with lost fruit were estimated to meet the daily recommended nutrition intake of 2, 9, 4, 2 and 24 people, respectively. Strategies to control and reduce pomegranate fruit losses and waste at the farm level should focus on environmental factors and mechanical damage since they account for the highest sources of fruit losses. This will ensure improved revenue to farmers, sustainable use of natural resources, reduction of the environmental impacts of the fruit industry, and more availability of quality fruit for nutritional security.
