Title: Global governance through voluntary sustainability standards: Developments, trends and challenges
Authors: Axel Marx, Charline Depoorter, Santiago Fernández de Córdoba, Rupal Verma, Mercedes Aráoz, Graeme Auld, Janne Bemelmans, Elizabeth A. Bennett, Eva Boonaert, Clara Brandi, Thomas Dietz, Ève Fouilleux, Janina Grabs, Lars H. Gulbrandsen, James Harrison, Robert Heilmayr, Ariel Macaspac Hernández, Bernard Hoekman, Siti Rubiah Lambert, Éric F. Lambin, Li Li, Miet Maertens, Paulo Mortara Batistic, Etsuyo Michida, Junji Nakagawa, Archna Negi, Jorge Antonio Pérez-Pineda, Stefano Ponte, Ximena Rueda, Philip Schleifer, Vera Helena Thorstensen, Hamish van der Ven
Year: 2024
Venue: Global Policy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/1758-5899.13401
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400217798

Abstract:
Abstract Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSS) are transnational governance instruments that can be leveraged to pursue sustainable development in global value chains. They have proliferated since the 1990s in terms of their number and the share of global production they govern. This paper shares some key insights arising from the considerable body of literature that has analysed the role of these instruments for sustainable production and trade. First, it introduces VSS, traces the evolution of their adoption and takes stock of the research on their sustainability impacts. Next, some major developments in the VSS realm are discussed, related to public policy and the emergence of national sustainability standards. The paper then zooms in on the challenges and limitations of VSS in transforming value chains towards sustainability, focusing on the shortcomings related to inclusiveness and the problems arising from their proliferation. The paper concludes by distilling recommendations on overcoming these challenges, especially in light of recent policy developments, and outlines what different stakeholders can do to make VSS more effective and inclusive instruments for sustainable value chains.
