Title: Smart Campus Microgrids towards a Sustainable Energy Transition—The Case Study of the Hellenic Mediterranean University in Crete
Authors: Alexandros Paspatis, Konstantinos Fiorentzis, Yiannis A. Katsigiannis, Emmanuel Karapidakis
Year: 2022
Venue: Mathematics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/math10071065
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4221061010

Abstract:
Smart campus microgrids are considered in this paper, with the aim of highlighting their applicability in the framework of the sustainable energy transition. In particular, the campus of the Hellenic Mediterranean University (HMU) in Heraklion, Crete, Greece, is selected as a case study to highlight the multiple campus microgrids’ advantages. Crete represents an interesting insular power system case, due to the high renewable energy sources capacity and the large summer tourism industry. There is also a high density of university and research campuses, making the campus microgrid concept a promising solution for the energy transition and decarbonization of the island. In this sense, policy directions that could facilitate the development of the smart campus microgrid are also given, to motivate areas with similar characteristics. For the performed case study, the HMU microgrid is assumed to consist of PV systems, wind turbines, battery energy storage systems and EV chargers. The analysis explores the financial feasibility and environmental impact of such an investment through the optimal sizing of the systems under investigation, while a sensitivity analysis regarding the battery system cost is also performed. Apart from the financial benefits of the investment, it is evident that the main grid experiences a significant load reduction, with the microgrid acting as a RES producer for many hours, hence improving system adequacy. Moreover, it is shown that the location of HMU makes the investment more sustainable compared to other locations in northern Europe, such as Stockholm and London. The methodology and the derived results are expected to motivate such investments, especially in areas with high RES capacity and a high density of university and research campuses.
