Title: Psychrophilic Bacterial Phosphate-Biofertilizers: A Novel Extremophile for Sustainable Crop Production under Cold Environment
Authors: Asfa Rizvi, Bilal Ahmed, Mohammad Saghir Khan, Shahid Umar, Jintae Lee
Year: 2021
Venue: Microorganisms
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms9122451
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3216684659

Abstract:
Abiotic stresses, including low-temperature environments, adversely affect the structure, composition, and physiological activities of soil microbiomes. Also, low temperatures disturb physiological and metabolic processes, leading to major crop losses worldwide. Extreme cold temperature habitats are, however, an interesting source of psychrophilic and psychrotolerant phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) that can ameliorate the low-temperature conditions while maintaining their physiological activities. The production of antifreeze proteins and expression of stress-induced genes at low temperatures favors the survival of such organisms during cold stress. The ability to facilitate plant growth by supplying a major plant nutrient, phosphorus, in P-deficient soil is one of the novel functional properties of cold-tolerant PSB. By contrast, plants growing under stress conditions require cold-tolerant rhizosphere bacteria to enhance their performance. To this end, the use of psychrophilic PSB formulations has been found effective in yield optimization under temperature-stressed conditions. Most of the research has been done on microbial P biofertilizers impacting plant growth under normal cultivation practices but little attention has been paid to the plant growth-promoting activities of cold-tolerant PSB on crops growing in low-temperature environments. This scientific gap formed the basis of the present manuscript and explains the rationale for the introduction of cold-tolerant PSB in competitive agronomic practices, including the mechanism of solubilization/mineralization, release of biosensor active biomolecules, molecular engineering of PSB for increasing both P solubilizing/mineralizing efficiency, and host range. The impact of extreme cold on the physiological activities of plants and how plants overcome such stresses is discussed briefly. It is time to enlarge the prospects of psychrophilic/psychrotolerant phosphate biofertilizers and take advantage of their precious, fundamental, and economical but enormous plant growth augmenting potential to ameliorate stress and facilitate crop production to satisfy the food demands of frighteningly growing human populations. The production and application of cold-tolerant P-biofertilizers will recuperate sustainable agriculture in cold adaptive agrosystems.
