Title: Sustainable supply chain management performance in post COVID-19 era in an emerging economy: a big data perspective
Authors: Qasim Ali Nisar, Shahbaz Haider, Irfan Ameer, Muhammad Sajjad Hussain, Sonaina Safi Gill, Usama Awan
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Emerging Markets
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijoem-12-2021-1807
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4281937510

Abstract:
Purpose Big data analytics capabilities are the driving force and deemed as an operational excellence approach to improving the green supply chain performance in the post COVID-19 situation. Motivated by the COVID-19 epidemic and the problems it poses to the supply chain's long-term viability, this study used dynamic capabilities theory as a foundation to assess the imperative role of big data analytics capabilities (management, talent and technological) toward green supply chain performance. Design/methodology/approach This study was quantitative and cross-sectional. Data were collected from 374 executives through a survey questionnaire method by applying an appropriate random sampling technique. The authors employed PLS-SEM to analyze the data. Findings The findings revealed that big data analytics capabilities play a significant role in boosting up sustainable supply chain performance. It was found that big data analytics capabilities significantly contributed to supply chain risk management and innovative green product development that ultimately enhanced innovation and learning performance. Moreover, innovation and green learning performance has a significant and positive relationship with sustainable supply chain performance. In the post COVID-19 situation, organizations can enhance their sustainable supply chain performance by giving extra attention to big data analytics capabilities and supply chain risk and innovativeness. Originality/value The paper specifically emphasizes on the factors that result in the sustainability in supply chain integrated with the big data analytics. Additionally, it offers the boundary condition for gaining the sustainable supply chain management.
