Title: Sustainable mobility strategies deconstructed: a taxonomy of urban vehicle access regulations
Authors: Koos Fransen, Jente Versigghel, Daniel Guzman Vargas, Ivana Šemanjski, Sidharta Gautama
Year: 2023
Venue: European Transport Research Review
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12544-023-00576-3
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321240434

Abstract:
Abstract Background In recent decades, cities worldwide are increasingly adopting vehicle access policies and technologies to alleviate the negative externalities related to high car use in the urban built environments. As such, car-oriented infrastructures and mobility policies implemented post-World War II are giving way to sustainable mobility strategies that aim to make cities healthier, more livable and more inclusive for all. Purpose Most of these strategies are considered as stand-alone cases related to a specific environmental, political and social urban context. However, similarities and patterns between different strategies can provide information on the replicability of mobility strategies in other urban contexts. Methods Through a literature review, this paper illustrates the wide range of urban vehicle access regulations (UVAR) applied within sustainable mobility strategies. In addition, we critically examine the process from ideation over design and implementation to operation phase for 12 West-European cities and define what measures are combined to end up with a sustainable mobility strategy. Results This results in a taxonomy of UVAR interventions, subdivided in three categories: spatial interventions, pricing aspects and regulatory measures. We also highlight a number of complementary supportive measures implemented to counter the often restrictive nature of UVAR. Results The paper shows that the strategies highlighted in the case studies are an amalgam of different UVAR and supportive measures. As such, deconstructing various sustainable mobility strategies enables us to shed light on the available UVAR options cities can combine to define consistent and robust sustainable mobility strategies.
