Title: Vermifiltration as a natural, sustainable and green technology for environmental remediation: A new paradigm for wastewater treatment process
Authors: Sudipti Arora, Sakshi Saraswat
Year: 2021
Venue: Current Research in Green and Sustainable Chemistry
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crgsc.2021.100061
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3124057366

Abstract:
Wastewater treatment and reuse is one of the most promising efforts to stem global water crisis. With the present shift towards sustainable development as a priority, the wastewater companies should respond to this requirement. To downturn, the negative impact of anthropogenic activities, advanced green technologies (AGTs) are being practiced. AGTs refer to a group of natural, green technologies that includes practical methodologies and materials based on non-toxic chemical processes, clean energies, and environmental monitoring to slow down the negative impact induced by human activities. The main motive of green technologies is to provide high end results without compromising on environmental sustainability. Among all the existing options, green technology such as vermifiltration is the natural & sustainable choice. Vermifiltration is an extension of the vermicomposting process. It is a biofilter with earthworms, where the earthworms digest the suspended particles screened on the filter bed, and degrade organic matter through enzymatic activity, and in the process of ingestion; they passively aerate the system by burrowing action and removes pathogens. In this context, the present graphical review envisages the current state of the technical knowledge of the vermifiltration process, factors affecting the process and performance of vermifilters under different scenarios related to the treatment mechanisms and effective applications and advantages of the technology. This technology is a stand-alone technology providing tremendous benefits such as decentralized solution and high value end products like vermicompost and can be considered as a new paradigm for wastewater treatment processes.
