Title: Life cycle sustainability assessment of crops in India
Authors: Ambika Selvaraj, Jagrati Gautam, Shikhar Verma, Gaurav Verma, Siddhant Jain
Year: 2021
Venue: Current Research in Environmental Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crsust.2021.100074
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3193269288

Abstract:
In India, the modernization in the agricultural sector is continuously growing to meet the food demand of rising population. However, along with addressing hunger, modern agriculture impacts the ecosystem, human health, and resources, due to huge consumption of agrochemicals, and emission-intensive farming hence urges sustainable assessment. Till now, no impact assessment is reported on world's second-largest agricultural country- India. This paper is the first of its kind in evaluating the impact of the cultivation of 21 commonly grown crops that possess high production and emissions in India. The results were discussed in the order of impact parameters in respective years with possible causes and remedial measures. The results showed that rice has topped in maximum indices followed by sugarcane, wheat, and banana. The study forecasted that coconut played a concentrated role in global warming, while potato and sugarcane have a higher impact on water and ozone depletion, respectively. The outcomes of this study suggested appropriate improvements in farming practices, which can bring the emissions down and make the system more sustainable. Besides, these 18 indices were individually assessed for their connection with the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) in the aspects of agricultural activities to select the appropriate indices to measure the agricultural sustainability along with the identification of gaps to upgrade the existing indices or formulate a new one. Subsequently, this helps in achieving the SDGs in India with the least impact on the environment without compromising the socio-economic aspects involved in crop production and agricultural systems.
