Title: AIoT-based Sustainable Smart Supply Chain Framework
Authors: Alireza Aliahmadi, Hamed Nozari, Javid Ghahremani-Nahr
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Innovation in Management Economics and Social Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.52547/ijimes.2.2.28
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4312664554

Abstract:
Purpose: Supply chains in today's global environment operate in a market that is increasingly complex and dynamic in nature. In such an environment, a stable supply chain to respond to drastic changes in customer needs becomes inevitable. Based on these studies, it is obvious that organizations operating in the field of supply chain should accelerate their focus on sustainability and use technologies such as "Internet of Things" (IoT) and artificial intelligence to achieve the organization's goal of creating sustainable processes. Methodology: The presence of the Internet of Things, along with artificial intelligence technology, has created Artificial intelligence of things (AIoT) technology, which gives the big data from the Internet of Things great power. In this research, an attempt has been made to study and analyze the key dimensions, components and indicators of the AIoT-based sustainable supply chain. Also, a conceptual framework for Padidar intelligent supply chain based on these evolving technologies is presented, which can help to understand the elements of this intelligent supply chain in order to optimize. Findings: A study of the literature shows that investing in this technology to achieve sustainable benefits is inevitable. In addition, the use of this technology due to networking and the presence of the Internet requires appropriate security solutions for information technology, a workforce with the required set of skills, sharing information in an integrated environment with business partners. Originality/Value: The generalities of AIoT-based sustainable supply chain components in general, and things can be added to different industries and behaviors. Understanding the dimensions of this framework can always help to implement it effectively.
