Title: A Critical Review of Sustainable Vanillin-modified Vitrimers: Synthesis, Challenge and Prospects
Authors: Muhammad Abdur Rashid, Md. Nabiul Hasan, Md. Anisur Rahman Dayan, Mohammad Salman Ibna Jamal, Mohammed Kayes Patoary
Year: 2023
Venue: Reactions
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/reactions4010003
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313515611

Abstract:
Nearly 90% of thermosets are produced from petroleum resources, they have remarkable mechanical characteristics, are chemically durable, and dimensionally stable. However, they can contribute to global warming, depletion of petroleum reserves, and environmental contamination during manufacture, use, and disposal. Using renewable resources to form thermosetting materials is one of the most crucial aspects of addressing the aforementioned issues. Vanillin-based raw materials have been used in the industrial manufacturing of polymer materials because they are simple to modify structurally. Conversely, traditional thermosetting materials as a broad class of high-molecular-weight molecules are challenging to heal, decompose and recover owing to their permanent 3-D crosslinking network. Once the products are damaged, recycling issues could arise, causing resource loss and environmental impact. It could be solved by inserting dynamic covalent adaptable networks (DCANs) into the polymer chains, increasing product longevity, and minimizing waste. It also improves the attractiveness of these products in the prospective field. Moreover, it is essential to underline that increasing product lifespan and reducing waste is equivalent to reducing the expense of consuming resources. The detailed synthesis, reprocessing, thermal, and mechanical characteristics of partly and entirely biomass thermosetting polymers made from vanillin-modified monomers are covered in the current work. Finally, the review highlights the benefits, difficulties, and application of these emerging vanillin-modified vitrimers as a potential replacement for conventional non-recyclable thermosets.
