Title: An integrated stepwise weight assessment ratio analysis and weighted aggregated sum product assessment framework for sustainable supplier selection in the healthcare supply chains
Authors: Binoy Debnath, A.B.M. Mainul Bari, Md. Mahfujul Haq, Diego Augusto de Jesús Pacheco, Muztoba Ahmad Khan
Year: 2023
Venue: Supply Chain Analytics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sca.2022.100001
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4313555498

Abstract:
Supplier selection is a difficult task imposing significant challenges for supply chain managers in today's competitive environment. Sustainability adds another layer of complexity to this already difficult problem, given the global concerns on social, economic, and environmental impacts, especially in emerging economies. Many multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) methods have been proposed for sustainable supplier selection. However, insufficient emphasis in the literature is given to sustainable supplier selection for supporting decisions in healthcare testing facilities in emerging economies. This study proposes a supplier selection process for healthcare testing facilities from a sustainability perspective utilizing an integrated MCDM framework combining stepwise weight assessment ratio analysis (SWARA) and weighted aggregated sum product assessment (WASPAS). SWARA is used to rank the supplier selection criteria, and WASPAS is utilized to select the most suitable supplier. An Additive Ratio Assessment (ARAS) and Evaluation based on Distance from Average Solution (EDAS) are used to validate the results. A sensitivity analysis is conducted to test different scenarios of interest with the WASPAS method. Cost stability, continuous improvement and quality control, and past performance and reputation are the top-weighted criteria in the study. The findings of this research provide actionable insights to assist healthcare managers in responding to sustainability challenges more efficiently. The contributions of the study also inform policymakers to make more responsible decisions and establish regulations to improve sustainability in the healthcare industry in emerging economies.
