Title: Musina Municipality tourism management and strategies: a sustainable-eco-tourism inclusive business insights for the town, abbuting peri-urban and countryside existences
Authors: Azwindini Isaac Ramaano
Year: 2022
Venue: Management of Environmental Quality An International Journal
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/meq-11-2021-0257
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4206898258

Abstract:
Purpose This inquiry examines Musina Municipality's tourism development states and strategies with “a study of existing documents and respondents' acknowledgments on their conceived engagements on tourism administrations in Vhembe District, Limpopo Province, South Africa.” Imports of sustainable tourism and community subsistence have developed in modern years. Yet, not numerous such investigations centered on synergies inside the assorted characters of tourism and their businesses. Besides, meaningful aid to promote local settlements and sustainability in provincial districts is not modestly perceived. Hence the foremost aim is to appraise a strategy for consolidating tourism as an instrument for sustainable local community development (SLMD). The examination reasons that Musina Municipality has abundant tourism feasibilities and natural resources but requires a more diverse dependable tourism plan around the ecotourism market to permit the local inhabitants while promoting environmental sustainability. Design/methodology/approach To grasp the dynamics of tourism actualities and their management around the communities in the Municipality, Focus group discussion (FGDs), surveys, interviews and existing document inspections, supplemented by field observations, were appropriated. Consequently, Microsoft Excel, Cross-tabulation and manual sorting of data interpretation systematized the exploration of the data. The features supplementing the antecedent and modern tourism states toward sustainable-eco-tourism enterprises and assorted welfare in Musina Municipality got explained. Findings This study exposes an inoperative unity between sustainable tourism initiatives and ecotourism imperatives. The aforesaid could work enthusiastically on multiple forms of rural tourism in the adjoining local populations and the uprightness of urban tourism in Musina town. So, it has deliberated a basis for a conventional, sustainable, and ecotourism-bound market-orientated tourism approach to allow the local neighborhoods in Musina Municipality and its foundation toward the intact Province. Originality/value Musina Municipality is among the renowned desiccate precincts in the North of Limpopo Province in South Africa. It got designated by the poverty-stricken rural populations. A predicament is kindred to various agricultural societies elsewhere in the world. The Municipality nevertheless grounds itself in a diverse tourism-based exhibition within the Limpopo province, the Vhembe region. Such particularized wealth manifest through ecotourism-based realities akin to the Nwanedi Provincial Park (NPP), Tshipise Forever Resort (TFF), Nwanedi Resort (NN) and many others.
