Title: Enhanced phytoremediation strategy for sustainable management of heavy metals and radionuclides
Authors: B. S. Manisha Singh, Dipanjali Singh, Nabin Kumar Dhal
Year: 2021
Venue: Case Studies in Chemical and Environmental Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cscee.2021.100176
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200211904

Abstract:
Rapid industrialization, increased industrial wastes, higher agricultural inputs, and mining have elevated heavy metal (HM) contamination. Authorized nuclear waste discharge, nuclear weapon testing, etc., led to dissipation of radionuclides (RNs), into the geo-environment. Thus, unregulated utilization of such detrimental toxic substances needs proper attention. Without adequate management, the risk of mobilisation of HMs and RNs to the food web through crops and animals channel results into biomagnifications. Worldwide Researchers have been attracted towards phytoremediation techniques to clean up the contaminated environment without causing further ecological disturbances. Consequently, we have reviewed the environmental concerns of HMs and RNs owing to their physical and chemical behavior in the environment. We have also discussed various phytoremediation techniques and post-phytoremediation methods for sustainable remediation of targeted contaminants. In addition to that, the review comprises essential aspects of enhancing phytoremediation strategy by applying various soil amendments such as biochar, organic matters, organic acid exudates, humic substances, and factors for selecting hyperaccumulator plants. Deliberation regarding the management of biomass generated during phytoremediation process is also highlighted. Therefore, we focus on assessing various post-phytoremediation management strategies, including proper disposal of contaminated biomass, preparation of bio sorbent, bio fuel, biogas, nanoparticles, and bio fortification of essential nutritionally important HMs into various foods. Besides this, future implications of such an enhanced plant mediated remediation process are also suggested.
