Title: The nano-paradox: addressing nanotoxicity for sustainable agriculture, circular economy and SDGs
Authors: Vijay Rani Rajpal, Byonkesh Nongthongbam, Manika Bhatia, Apekshita Singh, S. N. Raina, Tatiana Minkina, Vishnu D. Rajput, Zahra Noreen, Azamal Husen
Year: 2025
Venue: Journal of Nanobiotechnology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12951-025-03371-5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4409735598

Abstract:
Engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) have aroused extensive interest in agricultural, industrial, and medical applications. The integration of ENMs into the agricultural systems aligns with the principles of United Nations' sustainable development goals (SDGs), circular economy (CE) and bio-economy (BE) principles. This approach offers excellent opportunities to enhance productivity and address global climate change challenges. The revelation of the adverse effects of nanomaterials (NMs) on various organisms and ecosystems, however, has fueled the debate on 'Nano-paradox' leading to emergence of a new research domain 'Nanotoxicology'. ENMs have shown different interactions with biological and environmental systems as compared to their bulk counterparts. They bioaccumulate in organisms, soils, and other environmental matrices, move through food chains and reach higher trophic levels including humans ultimately resulting in oxidative stress and cellular damage. Understanding nano-bio interactions, the mechanism of gene- and cytotoxicity, and associated potential hazards, is therefore, essential to mitigate their toxicological outputs. This review comprehensively examines the cyto- and genotoxicity mechanisms of ENMs in biological systems, covering aspects such as their entry, uptake, cellular responses, dynamic interactions in biological environments their long-term effects and environmental risk assessment (ERA). It also discusses toxicological assessment methods, regulatory policies, strategies for toxicity management/mitigation and future research directions in nanotechnology, all within the context of SDGs, CE, promoting resource efficiency and sustainability. Navigating the nano-paradox involves balancing the benefits of nanomaterials with concerns about nanotoxicity. Prioritizing thorough research on above facets can ensure sustainability and safety, enabling responsible harnessing of nanotechnology's transformative potential in various applications including mitigating global climate change and enhancing agricultural productivity.
