Title: Integrating digital mapping technologies in urban development: Advancing sustainable and resilient infrastructure for SDG 9 achievement – a systematic review
Authors: Khaled Mahmoud Abdel Aziz, Ahmed Osama Daoud, Atul Kumar Singh, Mohammad Alhusban
Year: 2025
Venue: Alexandria Engineering Journal
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2024.12.078
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4406089743

Abstract:
The UN Agenda 2030 recognised the critical role of urban areas as cultural, economic, and social life centres that can simultaneously address different sustainability goals and provide quick and more practical responses to associated problems. Goal 9 aimed to build resilient infrastructure, enhance sustainable and inclusive industrialisation and increase innovation, as stated by the UN. This review demonstrates our novel effort toward increasing understanding of the existing literature concerning integrating digital mapping technologies in urban development: advancing sustainable and resilient infrastructure for SDG 9 achievement. The review employed a systematic approach to literature search and selection. Results showed that SDGs' Resilient Infrastructure constituted 13.2 %, Sustainable Industrialisation/Smart Cities (30.2 %), Fostering Innovation (13.2 %), ICT (3.8 %), Digital Data (5.7 %), Urban/Climate Resilience (5.7 %), and other aspects of SDG 9 accounted for 28.3 %. SDGs were not addressed by the studies relating to SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDG 9 (Infrastructure, Industry, and Innovation), SDG 12 (Responsible production and consumption), SDG 14 (life beneath water), and SDG 17 (Goals for partnership). A comparative dearth of research was also reported from low and middle-income nations. The study further indicated a lack of reliable data on SDG 9; finding what existed was challenging. These comprise economic shifts to viable urban design patterns, including smart cities, consumption and production, effective governance, and renewed international means and partnerships of SDG implementation. Another set of challenges comprised a dearth of economic and social inclusion, extensive regional variations and rural-urban gaps, and gender inequality among women and men. Lastly, this study proposed a conceptual framework for implementing SDG 9. The study inferred that digital transformation (DT) improves SDG 9 attainment. However, it might be mediated by the e-governance/brilliant city performance and stakeholder commitment level.
