Title: Nanomaterials as a Sustainable Choice for Treating Wastewater: A Review
Authors: Wael Ben Mbarek, Lluïsa Escoda, Joan Saurina, Eloi Pineda, Fahad M. Alminderej, Mohamed Khitouni, J.J. Suñol
Year: 2022
Venue: Materials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ma15238576
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4311186663

Abstract:
The removal of dyes from textile effluents utilizing advanced wastewater treatment methods with high efficiency and low cost has received substantial attention due to the rise in pollutants in water. The purpose of this work is to give a comprehensive analysis of the different treatments for removing chemical dyes from textile effluents. The capability and potential of conventional treatments for the degradation of dyeing compounds in aqueous media, as well as the influence of multiple parameters, such as the pH solution, initial dye concentration, and adsorbent dose, are presented in this study. This study is an overview of the scientific research literature on this topic, including nanoreductive and nanophotocatalyst processes, as well as nanoadsorbents and nanomembranes. For the purpose of treating sewage, the special properties of nanoparticles are currently being carefully researched. The ability of nanomaterials to remove organic matter, fungus, and viruses from wastewater is another benefit. Nanomaterials are employed in advanced oxidation techniques to clean wastewater. Additionally, because of their small dimensions, nanoparticles have a wide effective area of contact. Due to this, nanoparticles' adsorption and reactivity are powerful. The improvement of nanomaterial technology will be beneficial for the treatment of wastewater. This report also offers a thorough review of the distinctive properties of nanomaterials used in wastewater treatment, as well as their appropriate application and future possibilities. Since only a few types of nanomaterials have been produced, it is also important to focus on their technological feasibility in addition to their economic feasibility. According to this study, nanoparticles (NPs) have a significant adsorption area, efficient chemical reactions, and electrical conductivity that help treat wastewater effectively.
