Title: Assessment of groundwater challenge and the sustainable management strategies
Authors: Joseph Omeiza Alao, Avila Bello, Hussiani Lawal, Damilola M. Abdullahi
Year: 2024
Venue: Results in Earth Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rines.2024.100049
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4404908082

Abstract:
Groundwater is an essential resource, particularly in arid and semi-arid regions where surface water is scarce. The increasing global demand for water, coupled with climate change and pollution, has posed significant challenges to the sustainable management of groundwater. The water distribution pattern is not unconnected with the territorial and geographical strategies for national development. Therefore, securing the water future requires special treatment with mechanical concepts, technical efficiency, scientific involvement, and regional consideration as a generic approach to meet the future demand for potable and clean water. This systematic review aims to evaluate groundwater management challenges in arid and semi-arid regions and explore sustainable strategies to address these challenges. By synthesizing existing literature, the review provides a comprehensive understanding of the current state of groundwater resources, the impacts of over-extraction, contamination, climate change, and poor economic development strategies incompatible with water resources in arid regions, and the effectiveness of various management practices. Compiled studies predict a hard time in groundwater resources (GWR) and possible future disasters if proper steps are not taken. However, previous scientific and technical approaches indicate green-light but seem not to have gained enough momentum and a generic approach to secure the water's future, especially in hot arid regions due to the impacts of climate phenomena. The huge research gap due to uncertainties and difficulties in predicting the future of arid climate phenomena on groundwater has further complicated the water challenges. Five top priorities were proposed as the way forward to improve the water's future, especially in hot arid regions, which include but are not limited to (i) geophysical methods for monitoring and management, (ii) effective rainwater harvesting mechanisms (ERHM), (iii) additional storage support mechanism (ASSM), (iv) developing pollutants filters, and (v) aquifer afforestation, to nail the acute water challenges for effective water security and sustainability. In addition, developing next-generation filters to remove harmful substances and retain essential minerals in the water while selecting purification technologies based on regional geology, climate conditions, and needs remains a critical approach. Finally, the outcomes from the study would help all the stakeholders and policymakers in groundwater resource management to take decisive and sustainable measures for safe water supply in the affected areas to meet the global target of equitable access to safe, affordable, clean, and unpolluted drinking water.
