Title: Performance enhancement, life cycle assessment, and feature analysis of wheat starch-based NaCl-binder as a sustainable alternative to OPC mortar
Authors: Mohammad Reza Hanafi, Hamed Rahimpour, Sahar Zinatloo‐Ajabshir, Faramarz Moodi, Ahmad Fahmi
Year: 2024
Venue: Results in Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.103281
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4403935453

Abstract:
• A novel wheat starch-based bio-adhesive is introduced with improved characteristics. • For the first time, the impact of using wheat starch as a binder was investigated. • Sustainable substituting ordinary Portland cement with wheat starch-based NaCl-binder. • Facile fabrication of wheat starch-based NaCl-binder for structural and paving uses. • Salt granulation effect on strength, water absorption, and hydrophobicity of samples. The primary aim of this investigation is to advance the properties of an innovative and sustainable wheat starch-based NaCl-binder (WSB) material. The scope encompasses the material's ecological and structural applications and potential for paving usage. The creation of hydrophobic and environmentally friendly WSB samples under microwave curing conditions was achieved by using a salt mortar with varying sizes of salt grains, water, and wheat starch as a binding agent. This study investigated the effects of curing time, water and starch amounts, and salt particle size on strength, modulus of rupture, and modulus of elasticity. Additionally, XRD, XRF, and SEM analyses were carried out to assess the chemical characteristics of WSB and the bonding between its particles. The mix design with the highest compressive strength, which consisted of 1 wt% starch, 8 min of microwave treatment, and 10 wt% water, attained a strength of 25.27 MPa. Furthermore, coconut oil was employed to effectively make the samples water-resistant. Following different guidelines, WSB could be categorized as structural concrete and utilized for structural and paving bricks. A vital aspect of this study is the exceptional environmental performance of WSB as a structural material, highlighting its originality and importance.
