Title: A step towards sustainable glass fiber reinforced concrete utilizing silica fume and waste coconut shell aggregate
Authors: Osama Zaid, Jawad Ahmad, Muhammad Shahid Siddique, Fahid Aslam, Hisham Alabduljabbar, Khaled Mohamed Khedher
Year: 2021
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-92228-6
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3170459332

Abstract:
Today, it's getting harder to find natural resources for concrete production. Utilization of the waste materials not just helps in getting them used in concrete, cement, and other construction materials, but also has various secondary advantages, for example, saving in energy, decrease in landfill cost, and protecting climate from pollution. Considering this in the development of modern structural design, utilizing waste materials instead of natural aggregate is a good option to make concrete that is sustainable and eco-friendly. The present research aims to find the impact of adding glass fiber into sustainable concrete made with silica fume, as a partial replacement of cement, and coconut shell added with different ratios as a replacement of coarse aggregate, on concrete mechanical and durability aspects. Various blends were made, with coconut shell as a substitution of coarse aggregates with different ratios. Portland cement was substituted with silica fume at 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20% by cement weight in all concrete blends. The volume ratios of glass fibers utilized in this study were 0.5%, 1.0%, 1.5% and 2.0%. Adding glass fibers increases concrete density to some extent and then marginally reduces the density of coconut shell concrete. When the percentage of glass fibers increases, the compressive, flexural and split tensile strength of coconut shell concrete also increases. From the lab results and SEM images of the present research display that glass fibers might be utilized in coconut shell concrete to enhance its mechanical and durability attributes, to accomplish sustainable concrete with acceptable strength with ease.
