Title: Enhancing Najran’s sustainable smart city development in the face of urbanization challenges in Saudi- Arabia
Authors: Badr Saad Alotaibi, Rana Elnaklah, Oluwagbemiga Paul Agboola, Mohammed Awad Abuhussain, Mustafa Tunay, Yakubu Aminu Dodo, Ammar Maghrabi, Mana Alyami
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Asian Architecture and Building Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/13467581.2024.2358203
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4399567318

Abstract:
This research offers valuable perspectives on the nexus between urbanization and the smart environment within the Najran city, Saudi Arabian context. Najran City, with its diverse districts and evolving urban landscape, is at the forefront of adopting advanced technologies and participatory governance models to create a resilient, environmentally conscious, and sustainable urban environment, likewise positioning itself as a model of smart urban development but is also fostering an innovation-driven community equipped to address the difficulties and exploit the prospects given by the 21st century. The study systematically analyzes the multifaceted factors of smart city variables in Saudi Arabia and their direct impact on urban sustainability through extensive quantitative investigations. This study reveals the positive correlations between smart city attributes, on the attainment of urban sustainability. In order words, the smart city’s attributes such as IoT (Internet of Things) devices, smart infrastructure, and data-driven solutions are linked to the creation of a resilient urban environment in the face of urbanization and sustainability challenges. On the other hand, the study noted that the integration of smart technologies might lead to unintended consequences in urban planning. For example, an overemphasis on technology may overshadow human-centric approaches, which might potentially affect the community well-being and social cohesion. Study’s insights provide policymakers, urban planners, and players with an in-depth knowledge of the pathways to harness smart city attributes for sustainable Najran urban development. The implications of this research extend beyond the borders of Saudi Arabia, serving as a valuable reference for regions worldwide grappling with similar urbanization and sustainability challenges in the 21st century. By harnessing the potential of smart cities, Saudi Arabia and other nations can pave the way for greener, more resilient urban futures.
