Title: Land-use trajectories for sustainable land system transformations: Identifying leverage points in a global biodiversity hotspot
Authors: Dominic A. Martin, Fanilo Andrianisaina, Thio Rosin Fulgence, Kristina Osen, Anjaharinony A. N. A. Rakotomalala, Estelle Raveloaritiana, Marie Rolande Soazafy, Annemarie Wurz, Rouvah Andriafanomezantsoa, Harilala Andriamaniraka, Aristide Andrianarimisa, Jan Barkmann, Saskia Dröge, Ingo Graß, Nathaly R. Guerrero‐Ramírez, Hendrik Hänke, Dirk Hölscher, Bakolimalala Rakouth, Hery Lisy Tiana Ranarijaona, Romual Randriamanantena, Fanomezana M. Ratsoavina, Lala Harivelo Raveloson Ravaomanarivo, Dominik Schwab, Teja Tscharntke, Delphine Clara Zemp, Holger Kreft
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2107747119
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4213154763

Abstract:
Sustainable land-system transformations are necessary to avert biodiversity and climate collapse. However, it remains unclear where entry points for transformations exist in complex land systems. Here, we conceptualize land systems along land-use trajectories, which allows us to identify and evaluate leverage points, i.e., entry points on the trajectory where targeted interventions have particular leverage to influence land-use decisions. We apply this framework in the biodiversity hotspot Madagascar. In the northeast, smallholder agriculture results in a land-use trajectory originating in old-growth forests and spanning from forest fragments to shifting hill rice cultivation and vanilla agroforests. Integrating interdisciplinary empirical data on seven taxa, five ecosystem services, and three measures of agricultural productivity, we assess trade-offs and cobenefits of land-use decisions at three leverage points along the trajectory. These trade-offs and cobenefits differ between leverage points: Two leverage points are situated at the conversion of old-growth forests and forest fragments to shifting cultivation and agroforestry, resulting in considerable trade-offs, especially between endemic biodiversity and agricultural productivity. Here, interventions enabling smallholders to conserve forests are necessary. This is urgent since ongoing forest loss threatens to eliminate these leverage points due to path dependency. The third leverage point allows for the restoration of land under shifting cultivation through vanilla agroforests and offers cobenefits between restoration goals and agricultural productivity. The co-occurring leverage points highlight that conservation and restoration are simultaneously necessary to avert collapse of multifunctional mosaic landscapes. Methodologically, the framework highlights the importance of considering path dependency along trajectories to achieve sustainable land-system transformations.
