Title: Bacterial Plant Biostimulants: A Sustainable Way towards Improving Growth, Productivity, and Health of Crops
Authors: Basharat Hamid, Muzafar Zaman, Shabeena Farooq, Sabah Fatima, R. Z. Sayyed, Zahoor Ahmad Baba, Tahir Ahmad Sheikh, M. S. Reddy, Hesham Ali El Enshasy, Abdul Gafur, Ni Luh Suriani
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13052856
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3134821929

Abstract:
This review presents a comprehensive and systematic study of the field of bacterial plant biostimulants and considers the fundamental and innovative principles underlying this technology. Plant biostimulants are an important tool for modern agriculture as part of an integrated crop management (ICM) system, helping make agriculture more sustainable and resilient. Plant biostimulants contain substance(s) and/or microorganisms whose function when applied to plants or the rhizosphere is to stimulate natural processes to enhance plant nutrient uptake, nutrient use efficiency, tolerance to abiotic stress, biocontrol, and crop quality. The use of plant biostimulants has gained substantial and significant heed worldwide as an environmentally friendly alternative to sustainable agricultural production. At present, there is an increasing curiosity in industry and researchers about microbial biostimulants, especially bacterial plant biostimulants (BPBs), to improve crop growth and productivity. The BPBs that are based on PGPR (plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria) play plausible roles to promote/stimulate crop plant growth through several mechanisms that include (i) nutrient acquisition by nitrogen (N2) fixation and solubilization of insoluble minerals (P, K, Zn), organic acids and siderophores; (ii) antimicrobial metabolites and various lytic enzymes; (iii) the action of growth regulators and stress-responsive/induced phytohormones; (iv) ameliorating abiotic stress such as drought, high soil salinity, extreme temperatures, oxidative stress, and heavy metals by using different modes of action; and (v) plant defense induction modes. Presented here is a brief review emphasizing the applicability of BPBs as an innovative exertion to fulfill the current food crisis.
