Title: Onboard carbon capture and storage (OCCS) for fossil fuel-based shipping: A sustainability assessment
Authors: Francesco Zanobetti, Gianmaria Pio, Marta Bucelli, Laura Miani, Sepideh Jafarzadeh, Valerio Cozzani
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Cleaner Production
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2024.143343
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401378551

Abstract:
Limiting the carbon intensity of maritime transport is crucial to meet 2050 net-zero targets. Onboard carbon capture and storage (OCCS) offers a practical short-term solution for reducing shipping-related CO2 emissions until cleaner technologies are ready for large-scale adoption. This study introduces an innovative multi-objective approach to integrate sustainability into the conceptual design and decision-making phases of OCCS. A systematic technology screening identified possible OCCS solutions, which were then assessed for onboard feasibility. Specific indicators were defined to evaluate OCCS performance based on technological, economic, environmental, and social criteria, and aggregated sustainability perspectives. Using a fossil fuel-powered cruise ship as a case study, results were benchmarked against zero-carbon alternatives. Among the alternatives considered, chemical absorption by amine scrubbing (AS) and advanced cryogenic carbon capture (A3C) appeared as the only feasible solutions considering onboard energy requirements. The emerging cryogenic A3C concept resulted in being outperformed by benchmark AS, primarily due to an environmental impact 1.5 times higher. All alternative technologies, whether OCCS- or cleaner fuel-based, were found to be more sustainable than the baseline fossil fuel-based engine, lowering the environmental impact by at least 61%. Hydrogen as a marine fuel leads to the most promising scenario for future cleaner shipping operations, reducing the sustainability footprint by up to 76%. The robustness of the proposed method was confirmed by a probabilistic Monte Carlo sensitivity analysis. Overall, the results obtained can guide toward more informed solutions and policies promoting the sustainability of ship propulsion systems.
