Title: Process Mass Intensity (PMI): A Holistic Analysis of Current Peptide Manufacturing Processes Informs Sustainability in Peptide Synthesis
Authors: Ivy Kekessie, Katarzyna Wegner, Isamir Martínez, Michael E. Kopach, Timothy White, Janine K. Tom, Martin N. Kenworthy, Fabrice Gallou, John Lopez, Stefan G. Koenig, Philippa R. Payne, Stefan Eissler, Arumugam Balasubramanian, Changfeng Li, Subha Mukherjee, Albert Isidro‐Llobet, Olivier Ludemann‐Hombourger, Paul Richardson, Jörg Kittelmann, Daniel Sejer Pedersen, Leendert J. van den Bos
Year: 2024
Venue: The Journal of Organic Chemistry
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.3c01494
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393022591

Abstract:
Small molecule therapeutics represent the majority of the FDA-approved drugs. Yet, many attractive targets are poorly tractable by small molecules, generating a need for new therapeutic modalities. Due to their biocompatibility profile and structural versatility, peptide-based therapeutics are a possible solution. Additionally, in the past two decades, advances in peptide design, delivery, formulation, and devices have occurred, making therapeutic peptides an attractive modality. However, peptide manufacturing is often limited to solid-phase peptide synthesis (SPPS), liquid phase peptide synthesis (LPPS), and to a lesser extent hybrid SPPS/LPPS, with SPPS emerging as a predominant platform technology for peptide synthesis. SPPS involves the use of excess solvents and reagents which negatively impact the environment, thus highlighting the need for newer technologies to reduce the environmental footprint. Herein, fourteen American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable (ACS GCIPR) member companies with peptide-based therapeutics in their portfolio have compiled Process Mass Intensity (PMI) metrics to help inform the sustainability efforts in peptide synthesis. This includes PMI assessment on 40 synthetic peptide processes at various development stages in pharma, classified according to the development phase. This is the most comprehensive assessment of synthetic peptide environmental metrics to date. The synthetic peptide manufacturing process was divided into stages (synthesis, purification, isolation) to determine their respective PMI. On average, solid-phase peptide synthesis (SPPS) (PMI ≈ 13,000) does not compare favorably with other modalities such as small molecules (PMI median 168-308) and biopharmaceuticals (PMI ≈ 8300). Thus, the high PMI for peptide synthesis warrants more environmentally friendly processes in peptide manufacturing.
