Title: Sustainable edible packaging systems based on active compounds from food processing byproducts: A review
Authors: Imen Hamed, Anita Nordeng Jakobsen, Jørgen Lerfall
Year: 2021
Venue: Comprehensive Reviews in Food Science and Food Safety
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/1541-4337.12870
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200533501

Abstract:
The global food processing industries represent a challenge and a risk to the environment due to the poor handling of residues, which are often discarded as waste without being used in further sidestreams. Although some part of this biomass is utilized, large quantities are, however, still under- or unutilized despite these byproducts being a rich resource of valuable compounds. These biowastes contain biopolymers and other compounds such as proteins, polysaccharides, lipids, pigments, micronutrients, and minerals with good nutritional values and active biological properties with applications in various fields including the development of sustainable food packaging. This review offers an update on the recent advancement of food byproducts recycling and upgrading toward the production of food packaging materials, which could be edible, (bio)degradable, and act as carriers of biobased active agents such as antimicrobials, antioxidants, flavoring additives, and health-promoting compounds. This should be a global initiative to promote the well-being of humans and achieve sustainability while respecting the ecological boundaries of our planet. Edible films and coatings formulations based on biopolymers and active compounds extracted from biowastes offer great opportunities to decrease the devastating overuse of plastic-based packaging. It has become evident that a transition from a fuel-based to a circular bio-based economy is potentially beneficial. Therefore, the exploitation of food discards within the context of a zero-waste biorefinery approach would improve waste management by minimizing its generation, reduce pollution, and provide value-added compounds. Most importantly, the development of edible packaging materials from food byproducts does not compete with food resources, and it also helps decrease our dependency on petroleum-based products. Practical Application Almost 99% of current plastics are petroleum-based, and their continuous use has been devastating to the planet as plastic-derived components have been detected in all trophic levels. Besides, the increasing amounts of food by-products are a socioeconomic and environmental challenge, and halving food loss and waste and turning it into valuable products has become necessary to achieve sustainability and economic circularity. The development of new packaging systems such as edible materials could be one of the solutions to limit the use of persistent plastics. Edible films and coatings by-products-based could also enhance food packaging performance due to their compounds' bioactivities.
