Title: Improving the use of plant genetic resources to sustain breeding programs’ efficiency
Authors: Dimitri Sanchez, Sarah Ben Sadoun, Tristan Mary‐Huard, Antoine Allier, Laurence Moreau, Alain Charcosset
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2205780119
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4360992822

Abstract:
Genetic progress of crop plants is required to face human population growth and guarantee production stability in increasingly unstable environmental conditions. Breeding is accompanied by a loss in genetic diversity, which hinders sustainable genetic gain. Methodologies based on molecular marker information have been developed to manage diversity and proved effective in increasing long-term genetic gain. However, with realistic plant breeding population sizes, diversity depletion in closed programs appears ineluctable, calling for the introduction of relevant diversity donors. Although maintained with significant efforts, genetic resource collections remain underutilized, due to a large performance gap with elite germplasm. Bridging populations created by crossing genetic resources to elite lines prior to introduction into elite programs can manage this gap efficiently. To improve this strategy, we explored with simulations different genomic prediction and genetic diversity management options for a global program involving a bridging and an elite component. We analyzed the dynamics of quantitative trait loci fixation and followed the fate of allele donors after their introduction into the breeding program. Allocating 25% of total experimental resources to create a bridging component appears highly beneficial. We showed that potential diversity donors should be selected based on their phenotype rather than genomic predictions calibrated with the ongoing breeding program. We recommend incorporating improved donors into the elite program using a global calibration of the genomic prediction model and optimal cross selection maintaining a constant diversity. These approaches use efficiently genetic resources to sustain genetic gain and maintain neutral diversity, improving the flexibility to address future breeding objectives.
