Title: Exploring the contribution of sustainable entrepreneurship toward sustainable development goals: A bibliometric analysis
Authors: Aswathy Sreenivasan, M. Suresh
Year: 2023
Venue: Green Technologies and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.grets.2023.100038
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385732769

Abstract:
The paper aims to conduct a thorough bibliometric study to investigate and comprehend how sustainable entrepreneurship contributes to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sustainable entrepreneurship has evolved as a fundamental force behind positive social, environmental, and economic change, and sustainable development has become an urgent worldwide priority. We looked at a total of 1,357 papers on sustainable entrepreneurship that were published between 2002 and 2022. 679 of them have articles devoted explicitly to the SDGs. The Dimension database was used to locate prolific writers, sources, and influential articles interested in this field. According to the report, the SDGs SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), and SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) have been the most strongly impacted by sustainable entrepreneurship research. The most critical piece was likewise highlighted in the study as ”Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Sustainability Innovation: Categories and Interactions.” The study uncovered Several essential research areas, including social entrepreneurship, innovation, impact investing, the plastics industry, the triple bottom line, supply chains, sustainable business, business networks, competitiveness, innovative economies, social efficiency, entrepreneurial marketing, and small and medium-sized enterprises. This study fills a vacuum in the existing literature by thoroughly reviewing the significant players and using a co-word analysis to pinpoint new research themes. This research seeks to clarify the contributions of sustainable entrepreneurship to the SDGs to promote future advancement and well-informed decision-making in sustainable development initiatives.
