Title: Analysis of sustainable concrete obtained from the by-products of an industrial process and recycled aggregates from construction and demolition waste
Authors: M. Bergonzoni, Riccardo Melloni, Lucia Botti
Year: 2023
Venue: Procedia Computer Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2022.12.200
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4315783033

Abstract:
The excessive exploitation of natural resources for construction is producing an extreme impact on air pollution and global warming. In response to the extreme climate changes and the lack of primary resources that social-economic systems are experiencing all over the world, international and local governments are supporting the development of the culture of sustainable manufacturing, following the principles of the circular economy. In this context, the present study supports the research on the design of sustainable and cross-industry value chains. This paper investigates the characteristics of sustainable concrete obtained from industrial waste and recycled aggregates from construction and demolition waste. The industrial waste adopted in this study is the by-product of an industrial production process. The aim was to investigate the characteristics of such a by-product as a recycled additive for sustainable concrete and to assess its eco-compatible safety performance. The results suggest that the by-products adopted in this research provide an interesting alternative to the use of primary resources, e.g. the fine sand, in the concrete mixture. However, the optimal amount of by-products depends on the characteristics of the waste material in the mixture. The eco-compatibility test was performed to investigate the leaching behavior of the proposed sustainable concrete. The present research promotes the adoption of a cross-industry and circular approach towards sustainability, showing that the use of industrial waste to produce sustainable concrete allows benefits for all the stakeholders involved in the value chain and for society.
