Title: Digital Pedagogy for Sustainable Learning
Authors: Chikkamadaiah Nanjundaswamy, Shobanah Menon Baskaran, M H Leela
Year: 2021
Venue: Shanlax International Journal of Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.34293/education.v9i3.3881
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3170418670

Abstract:
Digital pedagogy is essential now as the entire world moves towards digitalization in all fields. Technology has influenced a lot on learning and resulted in the development of digital pedagogy, which has become a vital part of today’s world. This paper focuses on the influence and benefits of digital pedagogy for sustainable learning. The multifaceted nature that supports the developing idea of sustainable learning is viable for collaborating and networking interdisciplinary. Introduction of common goals, shared values and means for sustainability become challenging to achieve until a rapid or fast advancement on data innovation and information technology, digital learning, and worldwide access to data, information communication technologies (ICT) and development of selforganized socio-technical networks. Another dimension for innovation is ‘Susthingsout’, which refers to a creative pedagogy with an enhanced teaching platform, improved e-magazine and virtual e-learning platforms. The word ‘Susthingsout’ means to uphold, encourage, and instill sustainable learning through the extensive and broad curriculum to the undergraduate course and various campus-based activities. In this regard, ‘Education for Sustainable Development (ESD)’ bridges the gap between the traditional and contemporary era that receives global acceptance and global reach. The present study outlines how contemporary platforms developed with unified efforts by combining experts, professionals, academicians, practitioners, learners and curriculum as a result of blended application on theory and practical knowledge and augments students’ employability. The study aims to examine the viability of academic practice, skills beyond disciplines, the classroom and the institution. The conceptual model has been initiated on Digital Collaboration and Sustainable Learning. Therefore, collaborative learning, blended learning, flipped learning, open conversation, creativity and innovation are at the heart of education and it is a system for sustainable learning and development.
