Title: Green Conversion of Carbon Dioxide and Sustainable Fuel Synthesis
Authors: Hosam M. Saleh, Amal I. Hassan
Year: 2023
Venue: Fire
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/fire6030128
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4360615172

Abstract:
Carbon capture and use may provide motivation for the global problem of mitigating global warming from substantial industrial emitters. Captured CO2 may be transformed into a range of products such as methanol as renewable energy sources. Polymers, cement, and heterogeneous catalysts for varying chemical synthesis are examples of commercial goods. Because some of these components may be converted into power, CO2 is a feedstock and excellent energy transporter. By employing collected CO2 from the atmosphere as the primary hydrocarbon source, a carbon-neutral fuel may be created. The fuel is subsequently burned, and CO2 is released into the atmosphere like a byproduct of the combustion process. There is no net carbon dioxide emitted or withdrawn from the environment during this process, hence the name carbon-neutral fuel. In a world with net-zero CO2 emissions, the anthroposphere will have attained its carbon hold-up capacity in response to a particular global average temperature increase, such as 1.5 °C. As a result, each carbon atom removed from the subsurface (lithosphere) must be returned to it, or it will be expelled into the atmosphere. CO2 removal technologies, such as biofuels with carbon sequestration and direct air capture, will be required to lower the high CO2 concentration in the atmosphere if the Paris Agreement’s ambitious climate targets are to be realized. In a carbon-neutral scenario, CO2 consumption with renewable energy is expected to contribute to the displacement of fossil fuels. This article includes a conceptual study and an evaluation of fuel technology that enables a carbon-neutral chemical industry in a net-zero-CO2-emissions environment. These are based on the use of collected CO2 as a feedstock in novel chemical processes, along with “green” hydrogen, or on the use of biomass. It will also shed light on innovative methods of green transformation and getting sustainable, environmentally friendly energy.
