Title: The sustainable transport planning index: A tool for the sustainable implementation of public transportation
Authors: Mona Ghafouri‐Azar, Sara Diamond, Jeremy Bowes, Ehsan Gholamalizadeh
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Development
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/sd.2537
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4363679553

Abstract:
Abstract The transportation sector contributes significantly to global greenhouse gas emissions, so it is crucial to assess and measure the sustainability of transportation systems. In this context, this study was conducted to develop an integrated index through the use of the multi‐criteria decision analysis method. The method combines existing discrete indexes into one comprehensive evaluation of public transportation, resulting in the sustainable transport planning index (STPI). In the STPI model, sustainability of transportation systems is assessed based on social, economic, and environmental factors that support the implementation of zero emission busses. The weight of each indicator is determined through the analytical hierarchy process, where expert judgment is used to assess the relative importance of each indicator. Normalization of indicators is performed to ensure comparability and consistency. The final STPI index is calculated as the weighted average of the normalized indicators. The STPI model reduces bias in the decision‐making process by considering multiple aspects and utilizing a structured approach to transport planning. The results of this method can provide valuable insights for decision‐makers, public transport agencies, government ministries, the private sector, and other stakeholders. As case study model, the STPI model was applied to the public transport system of the United Kingdom from 2007 to 2019, however; the methodology and lessons learned are applicable to all countries that are in the process of assembling data sets to weigh trade‐offs and inclusions in relation to sustainable transit such as accessibility and health impacts.
