Title: Research on the coordinated development model of marine ecological environment protection and economic sustainable development
Authors: Xilu Qian
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Sea Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seares.2023.102377
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4362735503

Abstract:
The rapid development of marine economy has caused unprecedented damage to the marine ecological environment. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to promote the economic development of the coastal areas under the premise of ensuring the normal development of the marine ecological environment. At the same time, this study analyzes the limitations of the ecological environment protection in the system through the coordination of ecological environment protection and economic sustainable development. This study deeply discusses the coordination between ecological protection and economic development in the South China Sea. And it is assumed that there is a significant correlation between EEP and economic sustainable development, and a coordinated development model of the two is constructed. In the construction of the coordinated development model, first a coordinated development model among systems is established. Then the evaluation index system of coordinated development is built to determine the coordinated development model of ecological environment and economic development. The result analysis shows that the South China Sea ecological protection and economic development present a trend of sustainable development. From the coordination analysis of the two, it can be seen that the coordination degree of the South China Sea ecological environmental protection and economic development has been stable between 0.8 and 0.9 for a long time, and the two have a high degree of coordination. In addition, from the coordinated development trend of the South China Sea economy and ecological environment, it can be seen that in recent years, the coefficient of the coordinated development trend between the two has gradually decreased to below 1. It indicates that the coordinated development of the South China Sea economy and ecological environment has gradually been hindered. The above results show that various resources in the marine water resources ecological environment of the South China Sea will have a direct impact on economic activities as production factors of economic growth. Therefore, in the economic development of the South China Sea, we must strengthen the governance of the ecological environment, promote the ecological civilization and economic development of the South China Sea, and improve China's comprehensive economic strength
