Title: A Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling Analysis of the Primary Barriers to Sustainable Construction in Iran
Authors: Saeed Kamranfar, Farid Damirchi, Mitra Pourvaziri, Pardayev Abdunabi Xalikovich, Samira Mahmoudkelayeh, Reza Moezzi, Amir Vadiee
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151813762
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386814786

Abstract:
This paper outlines the obstacles to sustainable construction growth in Iran and thereafter examines the effect and relation between these barriers and the direction of sustainable construction growth as one of the essential objectives for achieving sustainable cities and infrastructure. The study is applied for research purposes that are based on descriptive survey data gathering and correlational data analysis techniques. The statistical population for this study consists of 120 construction-related engineers and university professors who were assessed on a five-point Likert scale. Using SmartPLS software version 4, the responses to the questionnaire were examined. The Kolmogorov–Smirnov assessment was utilized to evaluate the normalcy of the variables, as this assessment is typically employed for this purpose. For data analysis, the PLS (partial least squares) method was used, while SEM (structural equation modeling) methods have been used to assess the study hypotheses. Cronbach’s alpha and the composite reliability coefficient (CR) were applied to determine the instrument’s viability, and the results show that the coefficient connected to all variables is above 7.0, which is an acceptable value. The AVE (average variance extracted) was also used to evaluate the questionnaire’s validity, which was greater than 0.4 and deemed acceptable for coefficients of significance (T-values), coefficient of predictive power (Q2), and coefficient of determination (R2). The obtained results support and confirm all research hypotheses, including that the identified obstacles directly affect the performance of sustainable construction. According to the results of the Friedman test, the legal restrictions variable (CL) is the most significant obstacle to sustainable construction in Iran, with a rank of 4.24. The indicators of political limits (CP) and social and cultural constraints (CSC) came in at second and third, respectively. The results could help government officials make better decisions about where to focus their attention and how to distribute scarce resources.
