Title: Facilitating Sustainable Self-Directed Learning Experience with the Use of Mobile-Assisted Language Learning
Authors: Kyeong-Ouk Jeong
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14052894
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4214821257

Abstract:
This study explored the impact of utilizing mobile-assisted language learning to help EFL university students promote their learning performance and support a sustainable self-directed learning experience while developing digital literacy and technology competence. The global pandemic and spread of COVID-19 have accelerated the convergence of technology in the classroom in response to an emergency where the sustainability of education is at stake. With the progress of digital technology, a variety of smart mobile applications have been applied in English language learning and teaching. The use of those technologies can encourage language learners to practice self-directed learning beyond the classroom settings, which is essential for motivated and autonomous learning. Mobile phone applications have great potential as effective pedagogical tools with features such as accessibility, manageable interface, and multifunctional components. However, the use of mobile-assisted language learning for sustainable, self-directed learning outside the classroom has been relatively under-researched. In this study, EFL university students engaged in mobile-assisted language learning that could make their learning more sustainable and independent outside of the classroom. The data of this study show that students’ attitudes toward participating in mobile-assisted English language learning were affirmative. The results show that incorporation of mobile applications into language learning could foster learner motivation and make their learning more sustainable and entertaining than simply using the conventional instructional methods. Participants of this study stated that major benefits of experiencing mobile-assisted learning for their English study were ease of access to learning contents, portability of the learning tools, flexible and self-directed learning environment, better interaction, and improved self-efficacy in English learning performance. The pedagogical implications of the study are discussed, and instructional strategies are suggested to share ideas about a more pertinent learning environment in the era of digital transformation.
