Title: Green and Sustainable Membranes: A review
Authors: Navid Rabiee, Rajni Sharma, Sahar Foorginezhad, Maryam Jouyandeh, Mohsen Asadnia, Mohammad Rabiee, Omid Akhavan, Éder C. Lima, Krzysztof Formela, Milad Ashrafizadeh, Zari Fallah, Mahnaz Hassanpour, Abbas Mohammadi, Mohammad Reza Saeb
Year: 2023
Venue: Environmental Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2023.116133
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4377097229

Abstract:
Membranes are ubiquitous tools for modern water treatment technology that critically eliminate hazardous materials such as organic, inorganic, heavy metals, and biomedical pollutants. Nowadays, nano-membranes are of particular interest for myriad applications such as water treatment, desalination, ion exchange, ion concentration control, and several kinds of biomedical applications. However, this state-of-the-art technology suffers from some drawbacks, e.g., toxicity and fouling of contaminants, which makes the synthesis of green and sustainable membranes indeed safety-threatening. Typically, sustainability, non-toxicity, performance optimization, and commercialization are concerns centered on manufacturing green synthesized membranes. Thus, critical issues related to toxicity, biosafety, and mechanistic aspects of green-synthesized nano-membranes have to be systematically and comprehensively reviewed and discussed. Herein we evaluate various aspects of green nano-membranes in terms of their synthesis, characterization, recycling, and commercialization aspects. Nanomaterials intended for nano-membrane development are classified in view of their chemistry/synthesis, advantages, and limitations. Indeed, attaining prominent adsorption capacity and selectivity in green-synthesized nano-membranes requires multi-objective optimization of a number of materials and manufacturing parameters. In addition, the efficacy and removal performance of green nano-membranes are analyzed theoretically and experimentally to provide researchers and manufacturers with a comprehensive image of green nano-membrane efficiency under real environmental conditions.
