Title: Harnessing Artificial Intelligence for Advancing Sustainable Development Goals in South Africa's Higher Education System: A Qualitative Study
Authors: Oluwaseyi Aina Gbolade Opesemowo, Victoria Adekomaya
Year: 2024
Venue: International Journal of Learning Teaching and Educational Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.26803/ijlter.23.3.4
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393389521

Abstract:
Artificial intelligence (AI) presents opportunities in transforming higher education system and contribute significantly to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This study seeks to leverage AI technologies to advance SDGs within South Africa’s higher education system. It examines AI technology adoption in South African higher education institutions and challenges, strategies, and potential future directions. This qualitative research employed the constructivist principle to unravel the dynamics of AI in advancing SDGs in South Africa. Lecturers from the Department of Information Sciences were the participants of the study. The participants were purposefully selected based on their experience and knowledge of AI technologies. In-depth interview and focused group discussion was employed to generate and estimate responses using thematic content analysis. The result revealed that participants used AI technology to increase students' learning and engagement so students would not doze in class. It was discovered that AI technology has increased the chances for collective learning. The study further proved that AI technology can improve personalized learning experiences of students with diverse learning styles and abilities. This has led to a more inclusive and interactive classroom environment where students feel more motivated and supported in their learning journey. Integrating AI technology into education has shown promising results in improving student outcomes and fostering a more collaborative learning atmosphere. Based on the results, it implies that harnessing AI would advance SDGs in South Africa’s higher education institutions. As such, we recommended that the South African government should formulate comprehensive national AI education policy guidelines for higher education to regulate and harmonize the usage of AI in the higher education system.
