Title: Innovation as an Attribute of the Sustainable Development of Pharmaceutical Companies
Authors: Ewa Chomać-Pierzecka
Year: 2025
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su17062417
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4408277695

Abstract:
An orientation towards strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises through an effective response to market expectations is nowadays associated with sustainable development. Despite the articulation of the role of innovative solutions in this respect, the literature has not sufficiently explored this issue. Hence, the aim of the article was to analyse the impact of innovation on the sustainable development of enterprises in the pharmaceutical sector operating in the market in Poland. For the purposes of this study, the scope and spectrum of reference for innovative solutions in pharmaceutical entities was diagnosed based on the results of a diagnostic survey. In part of the in-depth study, an assessment of the impact of innovation on the sustainable development of the surveyed enterprises was conducted. The above was performed using appropriately selected methods of a qualitative and quantitative nature, including economic analytical techniques (cause-effect analysis, dependency analysis). The research sample was made up of companies operating on the pharmaceutical market in Poland; therefore, the results of the research refer only to these entities and there are no grounds for transferring them to the general population of enterprises in this sector in the country under study. This paper’s findings indicate that the idea of creating added value, growing out of a broad concern for social, environmental and economic aspects, is determined by an innovative approach that enhances environmental security, responding to societal expectations, while at the same time aiming to maximise the economic impact on activities. Companies that invest more heavily in innovation achieve better results in sustainable development, as confirmed by research. Companies are aware of this and are directing development expenditure into solutions that strengthen their ability to respond effectively to market expectations, with the strongest implementation of the above based on product innovation.
