Title: INTEGRATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION (EE) IN TEACHER EDUCATION PROGRAMS: TOWARD SUSTAINABLE CURRICULUM GREENING
Authors: Alma M. Corpuz, Teody C. San Andres, Julieta M. Lagasca
Year: 2022
Venue: Problems of Education in the 21st Century
DOI: https://doi.org/10.33225/pec/22.80.119
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4213458390

Abstract:
Environmental education (EE) is vital in addressing global environmental problems. Educational institutions are integrating EE into their curricula, but studies indicated the need for its intensification. This mixed method study assessed the integration of EE in Teacher Education Programs (TEPs) in Region III, Philippines. Respondents were 10 program deans,10 chairs, 171 teachers, and 344 students. Data were gathered using validated questionnaires. Findings revealed that the New Teacher Education Curriculum (NTEC) integrated EE in program outcomes and performance indicators; in mandated courses -Physical Education (PE) and National Service Training Program (NSTP); and in Science Technology and Society (STS), a General Education (GE) course. Likewise, teachers integrated EE in their lessons and in community extension programs. Seminars/webinars included environmental care and promoted environmental awareness in social media. As to support for EE integration, administrative, physical facilities and financial support were provided. On student outcomes, positive findings were shown on attitude towards environment care, but application of knowledge and skills needs improvement. Students’ knowledge was significantly correlated to attitude (Pearson’s r value is.593 and p value &lt;.05) as well as skills acquisition and attitude (Pearson’s r value is .647 and p value &lt;.05). Teachers’ challenges in the EE integration included inadequate environmental knowledge and lack of time to lead students in environmental action. The study concludes that EE is integrated into the TEPs but the outcomes on the learners’ knowledge and skills acquisition still need strengthening. Also, EE should be integrated in professional education courses, not only in GE and mandated courses. Keywords: assessment, integration of environmental education, mixed method, sustainable curriculum greening, teacher education programs
