Title: Institutions’ Effect on a Country’s Investment Attractiveness within Sustainable Development
Authors: Bogdan Moskalenko, Oleksii Lyulyov, Tetyana Pimonenko, Ihor Mykolaiovych Kobushko
Year: 2022
Venue: Virtual Economics
DOI: https://doi.org/10.34021/ve.2022.05.04(3)
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4362150424

Abstract:
Sustainable development requires implementation of relevant green transformation of countries by providing green policies and extending green technologies and renewable energies. Withal, it requires attracting additional knowledge, human, financial, and natural resources. In this case, countries with higher investment attractiveness have a higher capability to attract additional knowledge and resources to implement mechanisms and policies to achieve sustainable development goals. The effectiveness of public governance is a basic condition for the successful modernization of the economy to develop a positive business climate and attract investment. The paper aims at analysing the impact of institutions’ quality on a country’s investment attractiveness. The objects of research are Ukraine and the EU countries. The study applies correlation and regression analysis to achieve the purpose of the research. The findings show that institutions’ quality has a positive and statistically significant effect on a country’s investment attractiveness in the EU countries. However, in political stability, freedom and quality of governance positively influence a country’s investment attractiveness. Improving political stability by one point promotes the integrated index of a country’s investment attractiveness for the EU country by 0.086 and for Ukraine by 0.016. The impact of the rule of law on a country’s investment attractiveness is not statistically significant. This means that Ukraine has not formed an appropriate and affordable legislation base for attracting investors to the country. Thus, the Ukrainian government should pay attention to legislation for the regulation of social and economic development and energy and resource use.
