Title: Breaking the glass ceiling for a sustainable future: the power of women on corporate boards in reducing ESG controversies
Authors: Ayman Issa, Jalal Rajeh Hanaysha
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Accounting and Information Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijaim-03-2023-0053
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4381855177

Abstract:
Purpose This study aims to investigate the relationship between board gender diversity and environmental, social and governance (ESG) controversies and to determine if a critical mass of female directors has a significant impact on ESG performance. Design/methodology/approach The study analyzes a sample of non-financial companies from 13 European countries between 2004 and 2021. The primary method used to reach conclusions was the pooled ordinary least squares regression. Additionally, the study used supplementary techniques such as alternative measurement, sub-sample analysis and two-stage least squares to enhance its reliability. Findings The results indicate that a higher representation of women on boards is correlated with a reduction in the number of ESG controversies, particularly when there are three or more female directors. Furthermore, the relationship between board gender diversity and ESG controversies may be affected by factors such as industry, governance and a company’s environmental performance. Practical implications This study suggests that increasing women’s representation on boards may mitigate ESG controversies and improve firm reputation and performance, especially in industries with high ESG risks. Policymakers can support this through policies, targets, training and inclusive practices. The findings also inform investors and stakeholders of the relationship between board gender diversity and ESG controversies. Originality/value This study expands the understanding of the relationship between board gender diversity and sustainable accounting and finance. It focuses on the effect that having female board members has on corporate policies, which is significant for shaping global policies that promote diversity on boards.
