Title: Recent aspects of algal biomass for sustainable fuel production: a review
Authors: Saket Jha, Ravikant Singh, Brijesh K. Pandey, Ajay Kumar Tiwari, Shashikant Shukla, Anupam Dikshit, Abhishek Kumar Bhardwaj
Year: 2024
Venue: Discover Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s43621-024-00472-3
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402923125

Abstract:
In recent decades, microalgae have been getting attention as one sustainable and promising feedstock for biofuel production. Algal biomass can be a viable and long-term alternative for biofuel generation and has the capability to replace petroleum or diesel. According to technological economic models, algal biomass can become economically comparable to petroleum due to lowering carbon energy indices. This review entails the process, mechanism, comparative studies, challenges, and various reports involved in algal-based biofuel production. It also discusses the revolutionizing potential or option of algal biofuel, particularly in the transportation sector. Several advantages of algal biofuel over fossil fuels have been discussed, such as renewable, clean, low-cost, and commercial viability. Biofuels can be used as the primary fuel in motors or as a supplement. Sustainable issues regarding renewable biofuel have been addressed, which reduces greenhouse gas emissions. The preparation of biofuel from three basic components, which are lipids, carbohydrates, and proteins, is also discussed. Algae biomass can be used as an energy source for vehicular engines or as an additive to traditional fuels, such as by blending ethanol from sugar biomass with gasoline, offering a sustainable solution for both green product manufacturing and renewable energy requirements. In the aspect of carbon neutrality, algal biomass can be converted intobiofuels, including biomethane, bioethanol, and biohydrogen. The variety of available research and updated mechanisms represent a clear-cut idea for the suitability of industrial-scale biofuel production using selected algal strains. Finally, this review will be helpful to researchers who are working to improve production efficiency, reduce production costs, and realize industrial-scale production.
