Title: The face mask: A tale from protection to pollution and demanding sustainable solution
Authors: Madhusmita Mohanty, Jyotirmayee Mohanty, Sudeshna Dey, Kasturi Dutta, Maulin P. Shah, Alok Prasad Das
Year: 2023
Venue: Emerging contaminants
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emcon.2023.100298
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389477142

Abstract:
The usage of face masks in various sectors of healthcare facilities dates back to years ago. However, the utilization of facial coverings experienced a rapid surge as a result of the escalating rate of COVID-19 infections witnessed across the entire globe. This culminated in an unparalleled inundation of disposed facial coverings within the surrounding ecosystem. This transforms the face mask from a potent protectant into a massive emerging solid plastic waste pollutant with long-term adverse effects on the environment and human health. The utilization of facial coverings on a worldwide scale escalated to an immensely significant 129 billion per month at the onset of the pandemic. Nanomaterial-based technologies have been integrated into mask manufacturing chains to increase performance and provide antiviral characteristics. Nanotechnology encompasses multidisciplinary aspects including artificial intelligence, chemistry, biology, material science, physical science, and medicine. Abridgment of this review aims to make discarded face masks into a sustainable solution to many environmental pollution. In addition, it culminates collaborative and well-conducted trials, done for generating sustainable greener solutions for disposed face masks with the intention that usage of face masks in an environment-friendly manner. Given the preceding, the purpose of this review is to discuss the evolution of discarded face masks from sentinel pathogens to emerging environmental pollutants over time, as well as to comprehend the effect of discarded face masks on the biosphere, human health, and the food chain, by developing scientifically validated strategies to treat discarded face masks for a sustainable future.
