Title: Exploring the barriers to implement industrial symbiosis in the apparel manufacturing industry: Implications for sustainable development
Authors: Mosaddeque Hossain, Ridwan Al Aziz, Chitra Lekha Karmaker, Binoy Debnath, A.B.M. Mainul Bari, Abu Reza Md. Towfiqul Islam
Year: 2024
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e34156
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400363002

Abstract:
Industrial symbiosis, a promising approach for sustainable industrial practices, has garnered attention in recent days for its ability to enhance resource efficiency, minimize waste, and preserve the environment through collaborative exchanges among industries. In emerging economies like Bangladesh, integrating industrial symbiosis in the manufacturing industries offers the potential to balance economic growth with environmental sustainability. However, this integration encounters various barriers that complicate the implementation. Despite research on industrial symbiosis in robust economies, studies on emerging and developed economies are still scarce. To date, no research has yet investigated the barriers hindering the performance of industrial symbiosis in the Bangladeshi apparel manufacturing sector. To address this gap, this study integrates the Bayes theorem and the Best-Worst Method to identify and prioritize barriers to the Bangladeshi apparel manufacturing sector. From extensive literature reviews and expert validation, 17 barriers were identified. Findings reveal the "lack of technology and infrastructure readiness" as the most significant barrier, followed by "lack of inter-company cooperation" and "lack of management support". Conquering these barriers empowers emerging economies to fortify the apparel manufacturing sector's resilience, resource efficiency, and environmental performance while fostering sustainable development via circular economy practices. This study is expected to guide policymakers and stakeholders in crafting targeted strategies for promoting steady growth and sustainable development in the apparel manufacturing sector of emerging economies like Bangladesh.
