Title: Promotional Activities of Selected National Tourism Organizations (NTOs) in the Light of Sustainable Tourism (Including Sustainable Transport)
Authors: Dariusz Jacek Olszewski-Strzyżowski
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14052561
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4213445207

Abstract:
The dynamic development and evolution that tourism has recently undergone and its growing importance made it become an important element of the policy of today’s countries in various walks of social, economic and political life. As tourism is one of the largest industries in the world, most countries recognized the leading role in their economies, establishing in this regard the administrative structure of the national tourism organizations (NTOs). NTOs are responsible for the marketing and promotion of countries, improving the tourist image of a given country and supporting existing or developing new tourism products. At the same time, governments are increasingly realizing that tourism should develop in accordance with the principles of sustainable development and be integrated with the natural, cultural and social environment of these countries. This article presents the activities of selected national tourism organizations (NTOs) in terms of their role in developing the potential of sustainable tourism (and within it sustainable transport) in their countries. The aim of the article is to review the promotional activities undertaken by NTOs operating in countries such as Austria, Cyprus, Grenada, Guatemala, Norway and Indonesia. The article is an overview, and the following sources were used to prepare it: official websites of the organizations, reports, promotional materials and any documents related to the operation of the studied NTOs in the field of sustainable tourism and sustainable transport development (e.g., tourism development strategies, tourism product development strategies, projects and programs). The choice of these countries for the analysis was dictated by the fact that they have outstanding natural and cultural assets that make up the product potential for sustainable tourism and the very responsible, diverse and long-term promotional and marketing activities undertaken by the NTOs (e.g., promotional campaigns). Such prudent treatment of own resources and sustainable potential may also contribute to these countries gaining a competitive advantage over other destinations in the world (e.g., increase in interest from tourists). The activities and promotional campaigns cited in the article as well as the solutions proposed by NTOs can also become excellent examples of good practice for other destinations in the world. The research has also shown that the studied countries (and their national tourism organizations) clearly support the development of sustainable tourism and sustainable transport through their national tourism policies.
