Title: Environmental Sustainability of Metaverse: Perspectives from Romanian Developers
Authors: Ștefan Vlăduțescu, Georgiana Camelia Stănescu
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151511704
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385421810

Abstract:
The metaverse is currently in the process of development and has applications in various fields, ranging from the gaming industry to art, communication, education, and fashion. Researchers regard the metaverse as the future of the internet, and, in this context, the impact of this new universe’s development on the environment needs to be investigated to find viable solutions for its sustainability. We have discussed the economic and social sustainability consequences of the metaverse, and we have largely concentrated on the environmental effects. In conducting this research, we used a quantitative methodology mainly based on a structured questionnaire. We analyzed the impact of the metaverse on the environment from the perspective of professionals in the Romanian software development and programming industries. We selected this sample because the field is newly emerging and because they are experts on how the metaverse functions and evolves. We concluded that IT professionals believe that the new universe could have several negative impacts on the natural environment, such as increased power consumption or increased CO2. emissions and the negative impact can be mitigated by adopting clear regulations and sustainable policies at the international level. This study aims to contribute to the long-term sustainability of the metaverse ecosystem by facilitating a comprehensive understanding of its functioning and evolution, as well as by addressing potential negative impacts on the natural environment. Additionally, the study seeks to make a scholarly contribution to advancing a sustainable metaverse by fostering informed decision-making processes and encouraging responsible practices within the industry. This research might be useful for technology companies, academics, and policymakers.
