Title: The nature and use of Ocean Literacy in achieving sustainable ocean futures: A Systematic Map
Authors: Rebecca Shellock, Liam Fullbrook, Emma McKinley, Christopher Cvitanovic, Rachel Kelly, Valérie Martin
Year: 2024
Venue: Ocean & Coastal Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2024.107325
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4401731890

Abstract:
Ocean Literacy (OL) is essential for changing human behaviours and practices to improve ocean sustainability. Recently, the concept has become a focal topic in ocean and coastal research, including as a key pillar of the United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development. As the concept and practice of OL continues to evolve, it is timely to synthesise the existing evidence base to ensure that future research, practice and policy is informed by robust and up-to-date evidence. To this end, we undertook a Systematic Map addressing the following research questions: (i) where has OL work been undertaken, (ii) which OL dimensions have been discussed and measured, (iii) what methods have been used to measure OL, (iv) what populations have been studied in OL research, (v) what is the rationale or purpose of OL research and (vi) what are the recommendations for future OL research and practice? The review included 298 articles, 181 from peer-reviewed literature and 117 from grey literature. Results show a growing body of literature on OL research and practice, but also highlight several evidence gaps. Most research identified has been published by first authors from the USA, Canada, UK, Ireland and Portugal, accounting for over 50% of articles included in the Systematic Map. Evidence suggested that primary data studies have measured all 10 currently recognised dimensions of OL, albeit to varying degrees. However, assessing knowledge remains the predominant focus, indicating that the field still relies on the knowledge-deficit approach to OL. To date, studies have measured OL in 25 different target populations; however, over 50% focused on OL in students and teachers. Most of the studies employ quantitative approaches, particularly surveys, to collect OL data with limited use of other methods. We identified that OL research is driven by four core rationales or purposes: (i) defining and conceptualising OL, (ii) educational design and programming, (iii) evaluating OL, and (iv) increasing OL (tools and improvements). We also captured future priorities and recommendations for OL research and practice, including evaluation of OL initiatives and projects, diversity, equity and inclusion and partnerships and collaboration. The Systematic Map brings coherence to the existing OL evidence base, identifies gaps, and provides a way forward for OL research and practice and its implications for ocean and coastal management.
