Title: Prospects of edible insects as sustainable protein for food and feed – a review
Authors: Shahida Anusha Siddiqui, Jonathan Osei‐Owusu, Bello Mohammed Yunusa, Teguh Rahayu, Ito Fernando, Mohd Asif Shah, Gerardo Centoducati
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Insects as Food and Feed
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1163/23524588-20230042
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389137639

Abstract:
Abstract The residual population growth imposes an increase in food demand, driving humans to practice agricultural intensification on a large scale. Paradoxically, food and feed production may end up causing various environmental problems. At the same time, about 2.37 billion people in the World currently lack basic food security insurance. As a consequence, alternative sources that can substantially address the demand for food and feed sustainably are needed. Insect farming may offer an environmentally friendly solution for mitigating global food and feed challenges. The article aims to explore the potential of insects as sustainable food and feed sources while assessing their environmental impact, offering innovative solutions for global food security challenges. By highlighting the benefits of edible insects, the article supports informed decision-making and promotes sustainable practices. Mass production of edible insects has seen record growth over the decade, and their demand as future proteins is projected to reach up to 3 million tons in 2030. Additionally, insect farming is evidenced to be economically viable. To meet the demand for edible insects, a breakthrough such as the internet of things can be used to scale up production and processing. However, detailed environmental impact assessments are needed to predict scenarios of large-scale insect farming. Life cycle assessments of some edible insect production systems have validated that insect farming has various beneficial environmental impacts. The utilization of edible insects as food and feed is promising for significantly improving food security and the environmental sustainability of food.
