Title: Impact of Digital Finance on Energy Efficiency in the Context of Green Sustainable Development
Authors: Cheng‐Ying Yang, Tajul Ariffin Masron
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su141811250
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4294958689

Abstract:
Limited by ecological conditions, in order to improve the innovation efficiency concerning energy, a change from “extensive” to “green” is required. The development of sustainable technology is the most important productive force. Economic development is centered on finance. Only by mutual penetration and interaction can China’s energy innovation be effectively promoted. “Green GDP (Gross Domestic Product)” is the main direction of China’s current economic development. A sustainable green digital economy is the primary condition for promoting energy efficiency, and it is the key to improving energy efficiency in China to achieve a green transition. Green finance for sustainable development refers to economic finance centered on energy conservation, environmental protection and technological innovation. Attention is constantly paid to the financial industry in China, and we are trying to combine the concept of environmental protection with financial development to promote the continuous development of China’s environmental protection economy. A company’s economic and environmental benefits will be improved from the point of view of improving resource conservation and reducing the environmental impact of equipment and processes. To achieve this goal, the “efficiency effect” of the financial system needs to be fully exploited to maximize energy efficiency. An empirical study about the relationship of financial performance and energy efficiency in the green sector is carried out while considering the environmental constraints. The results show that the expansion of the financial scale and the adjustment of the financial structure have increased the energy utilization efficiency by more than 15% from the past to the present and reduced the pollution of the ecological environment by more than 10% nationwide, realizing the effective allocation of resources. Digital finance is a new generation of financial services that combines the Internet and information technology with traditional financial service formats. Including Internet payment, mobile payment, online banking, financial service outsourcing and online loans, online insurance, online funds and other financial services. Therefore, the sustainable development of all aspects of finance has a huge catalytic effect on the doubling of energy utilization efficiency.
