Title: Reframing sustainability initiatives in higher education
Authors: Diane White Husic
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainable Earth Reviews
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s42055-024-00076-9
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391814624

Abstract:
Abstract Amidst the ever-changing and increasingly complex challenges facing the planet and humanity, there is a growing need to educate the next generation of environmental stewards and leaders who are global citizens with sustainability mindsets. Universities have come a long way in developing sustainability programs – both in the curriculum and in terms of campus operations. Many research universities are highly focused on cutting-edge science and technology to address global challenges, and funders are looking for that innovation and entrepreneurialism. These are noteworthy efforts, but do they give students what they need or want? Has the commercialization and corporatization of college campuses led to a shift away from the notion that higher education is a public good that benefits society, not just individuals? Beyond the technical expertise, 21st century challenges demand that the workforce be diverse and capable of recognizing and tackling ethical, cultural, and equity issues for a sustainable and just future. An ethics-driven and interdisciplinarity curriculum framed around the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), civic engagement, and experiential learning that allows students to put their knowledge into action is needed to prepare individuals for such a workforce. This paper provides both a critique of areas in which higher education is falling short of its responsibilities and some translatable models and opportunities for improvements in reframing sustainability initiatives on campus, including in the curriculum. Policy and Practice Recommendations • Campus leaders and faculty should take note of surveys of younger generations, especially Gen Z and Gen alpha, as they provide valuable insights into what youth are focused on and what knowledge and set of skills they desire to become innovative problem solvers and builders of more resilient communities. • To prepare the next generation of environmental stewards and leaders, high impact practices that move knowledge to action are needed. • Sustainability topics should be incorporated across the curriculum on campuses, not just in certain majors. • Higher education needs to re-embrace the notion of service to the public good and work collaboratively across institutions and sectors to address complex societal challenges.
