Title: Managed Aquifer Recharge for Sustainable Groundwater Management: New Developments, Challenges, and Future Prospects
Authors: Muhammad Sufyan, Grazia Martelli, Pietro Teatini, Claudia Cherubini, Daniele Goi
Year: 2024
Venue: Water
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/w16223216
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4404283805

Abstract:
The combined effect of climate change and increased water demand has put significant strain on groundwater resources globally. Managed aquifer recharge (MAR) has become an effective approach for addressing groundwater depletion problems and sustainable management of groundwater resources. This review article provides an extensive insight into the existing knowledge of MAR, including the main objectives and applications, implementation techniques (surface spreading, sub-surface, and induced recharge) being practiced over the years, risks and challenges associated with the MAR, and the developments in the field of MAR. This review also explores the potential of MAR in the Friuli Venezia Giulia (FVG) region, north-eastern Italy. An average increase in temperature and a decrease in precipitation and piezometric levels in the region suggest the development of a proper MAR plan to manage water resources in the decades to come. Additionally, a comparative analysis of studies published over the last 20 years, focusing on the quantitative and qualitative aspects of water resource management, is conducted to analyze the research trends in the field of MAR. The reviewed literature reveals a notable research trend towards the quantitative aspect compared to the qualitative one. This review also identifies a notable disparity in qualitative studies during the analysis of water quality parameters considered in different MAR studies. Based on this review, a prospective viewpoint to address the challenges and expand the scope of the field is presented. This calls for an optimized strategy that considers both water quality and quantity issues, along with incorporating environmental and socio-economic aspects within the framework of MAR.
