Title: Sustainable Groundwater Potential Zoning with Integrating GIS, Remote Sensing, and AHP Model: A Case from North-Central Bangladesh
Authors: Ujjayini Priya, Muhammad Anwar Iqbal, Mohammed Abdus Salam, Md. Nur-E-Alam, Mohammed Faruque Uddin, Abu Reza Md. Towfiqul Islam, Showmitra Kumar Sarkar, Saiful Islam Imran, Aweng Eh Rak
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14095640
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4229370637

Abstract:
Groundwater is one of the most valuable natural resources, and the most dependable source of fresh water. For sustainable groundwater management, the present study aimed to model groundwater potential zones in the north–central region of Bangladesh using GIS, remote sensing, and the analytical hierarchy process. The present study included eight thematic layers: lineament density, geomorphology, soil types, slope, land use/land cover, drainage density, elevation, and rainfall features to delineate a groundwater potential zone of the area. Integration of the eight thematic layers was performed through weighted overlay analysis, which assisted in delineating groundwater potential zones. This simple and systematic method successfully provides a satisfactory result concerning the delineation of groundwater potential zones. The study resulted in a groundwater potential zone map, which identifies about 11.51% of the study area as being under a very high groundwater potential zone, covering an area of 504.09 km2. The AHP analysis shows that the physiographical parameters, such as lineament density, slope, and drainage density, and meteorological factors such as annual rainfall, have greater influence over groundwater potentiality. The result obtained from the weighted overlay analysis was verified with actual well yield and groundwater depth data, which show a significant positive correlation. The outcome of the study will help in taking effective measures to ensure sustainable use and extraction of groundwater in this region.
