Title: Review of quorum‐quenching probiotics: A promising non‐antibiotic‐based strategy for sustainable aquaculture
Authors: Anisa Rilla Lubis, Md Afsar Ahmed Sumon, Nguyen Dinh‐Hung, Arun K. Dhar, Jérôme Delamare‐Deboutteville, Do‐Hyung Kim, Andrew P. Shinn, Duangkhaetita Kanjanasopa, Patima Permpoonpattana, Hien Van Doan, Nguyen Vu Linh, Christopher L. Brown
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Fish Diseases
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/jfd.13941
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393157108

Abstract:
The emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARBs) and genes (ARGs) in aquaculture underscores the urgent need for alternative veterinary strategies to combat antimicrobial resistance (AMR). These measures are vital to reduce the likelihood of entering a post-antibiotic era. Identifying environmentally friendly biotechnological solutions to prevent and treat bacterial diseases is crucial for the sustainability of aquaculture and for minimizing the use of antimicrobials, especially antibiotics. The development of probiotics with quorum-quenching (QQ) capabilities presents a promising non-antibiotic strategy for sustainable aquaculture. Recent research has demonstrated the effectiveness of QQ probiotics (QQPs) against a range of significant fish pathogens in aquaculture. QQ disrupts microbial communication (quorum sensing, QS) by inhibiting the production, replication, and detection of signalling molecules, thereby reducing bacterial virulence factors. With their targeted anti-virulence approach, QQPs have substantial promise as a potential alternative to antibiotics. The application of QQPs in aquaculture, however, is still in its early stages and requires additional research. Key challenges include determining the optimal dosage and treatment regimens, understanding the long-term effects, and integrating QQPs with other disease control methods in diverse aquaculture systems. This review scrutinizes the current literature on antibiotic usage, AMR prevalence in aquaculture, QQ mechanisms and the application of QQPs as a sustainable alternative to antibiotics.
