Title: Innovation for environmental sustainability: longitudinal effects of an education for sustainable development intervention on university students’ pro-environmentalism
Authors: Silvia Collado, José David Moreno, José Martín-Albó
Year: 2021
Venue: International Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijshe-07-2021-0315
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200301004

Abstract:
Purpose Although education for sustainable development (ESD) is a key tool in the transition to a more sustainable society, its integration in higher education remains scarce. One reason for this is that more evidence is needed about the effectiveness of ESD interventions. This study aims to address this gap in the literature by examining the immediate and long-term effects of an ESD intervention on university students’ pro-environmental knowledge, personal environmental norm and pro-environmental behaviors. Design/methodology/approach This study used a quasi-experimental design that examined to what extent participating in an ESD intervention influenced university students’ self-reported pro-environmentalism (i.e. experimental group), compared to those who did not participate in the ESD intervention (i.e. control group). The authors also examined the longitudinal effects of the ESD intervention by recording students’ pro-environmentalism (both in the experimental and control group) 1 year after the intervention. Findings The findings showed that participation in the ESD intervention enhanced students’ pro-environmental knowledge, personal environmental norms and pro-environmental behaviors relative to the no-participation control group. The positive effects of the ESD intervention remained 1 year after the program finished. Originality/value This work explores the effects that ESD interventions have on university students. Its findings provide evidence about the effectiveness of the intervention and, therefore, support the inclusion of ESD at higher educational levels.
