Title: Self-rehydrating and highly entangled hydrogel for sustainable daytime passive cooling
Authors: Liang Xu, Da‐Wen Sun, You Tian, Libin Sun, Zhiwei Zhu
Year: 2023
Venue: Chemical Engineering Journal
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.147795
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389340833

Abstract:
Daytime passive cooling technology supported by coupling effects of daytime radiative cooling and evaporative cooling has drawn significant attention for alleviating the burdens of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Incorporating a hygroscopic agent allows the daytime radiative/evaporative cooler to replenish water itself at night, thus ensuring evaporative cooling during the daytime. However, the mechanism of the relationship between daytime passive cooling and nighttime rehydration is not fully understood. Besides, the design of circulating daytime radiative/evaporative coolers is segmented at present, and the poor mechanical properties of hydrogel restrict the practical application. Hence, a tough and elastic hydrogel with a highly entangled structure was prepared by dense polyacrylamide chains, exhibiting the 18-fold tensile stress and 9-fold compressive stress of the control group. Integrating zirconium dioxide (ZrO2) particles as a spectral regulator, the composite hydrogel possessed solar reflectance of 0.90 and mid-infrared emission of 0.88, realising daytime radiative cooling. After swelling in lithium bromide (LiBr) solution, the composite hydrogel achieved a cycle of daytime evaporative cooling and nighttime rehydration. Besides, the effects of LiBr concentrations on the evaporation and hygroscopicity of the composite hydrogel were investigated. Furthermore, two indoor experiments and one outdoor field test were performed, and the findings suggested that the design of strong hygroscopicity and effective evaporation was a contradiction, and it is crucial to narrow the gap between evaporation and rehydration instead of only pursuing the best cooling performance to achieve sustainable daytime passive cooling. Thus, it is hoped that this study could broaden the field of sustainable daytime passive cooling technologies.
