Title: A conceptual review of sustainable electrical power generation from biogas
Authors: Stéphane Abanades, Hossein Abbaspour, Abolfazl Ahmadi, Biplab Das, M.A. Ehyaei, Farbod Esmaeilion, Mamdouh El Haj Assad, Taher Hajilounezhad, Abir Hmida, Marc A. Rosen, Sadegh Safari, Mohammad Al Shabi, José Luz Silveira
Year: 2021
Venue: Energy Science & Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/ese3.1030
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200360959

Abstract:
Abstract High‐energy demand with rapid industrialization and mechanization combined with environmental pollution due to the burning of fossil fuels has driven a shift toward renewable energy. Biogas derived from biomass is a potential renewable energy source that can be used in different sectors such as transportation sector, electricity generation, heat production, combined heat and power (CHP) systems, and fuel cells. Moreover, the upgraded biogas can be applied as transportation fuel via an internal combustion chamber (for internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles), and electricity station (for electric vehicles). In the present work, a conceptual review of biogas‐based electrical power production systems is presented. It is clear that the conventional types of biomass contain a high amount of pollutants and unwanted constituents, which lower the lower heating value (LHV) of biogas fuel. Moreover, the energy and exergy efficiencies of biogas applications are influenced by these components. Consequently, several biogas‐upgrading technologies have been elaborated to increase the LHV of biogas fuel by removing biogas pollutants. So, the energy and exergy analyses of biogas‐driven plants are discussed in this regard. Also, the economic analysis of biogas‐fueled systems is measured through the connection between biogas production, purchased electrical power, and selling of an additional amount of biogas. Biogas represents an important source of renewable energy as shown before, and it helps in waste management and W‐to‐E (waste to energy) conversion, which allows utilizing huge amounts of wastes instead of disposal or landfill procedures. However, handling of biogas from production to utilization has an impact on the environment. Therefore, the assessment of the environmental impacts of biogas plants is presented. In addition, a combination of the biogas energy with other sources, especially renewable energy sources (eg, solar‐biogas, geothermal‐biogas, wind‐biogas, CHP, CCHP, and concentrated photovoltaic‐biogas), and reusing waste energy for other tasks (eg, employing the waste heat from a gas turbine) are examined.
