Title: Sustainability of Human Resource Management Processes through Employee Motivation and Job Satisfaction
Authors: Miloš Hitka, Jarmila Schmidtová, Silvia Lorincová, Peter Štarchoň, Dagmar Weberová, Rudolf Kampf
Year: 2021
Venue: Acta Polytechnica Hungarica
DOI: https://doi.org/10.12700/aph.18.2.2021.2.1
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3121993808

Abstract:
Small and medium-sized enterprises form a significant part of the economy of each country with the greatest potential for growth and the impact on stabilizing the economy. Their success or failure depends not only on know-how, capital, or machinery, but also on human resources, one of the competitive advantages and a critical factor of success. In order to achieve success and ensure the sustainability of business processes, the focus is on employee motivation and employee satisfaction, with an emphasis on effective management as multicultural workers' groups are becoming the current trend in logistics companies. Using Tukey's HSD post-hoc test and ANOVA, differences in the perception of motivation and job satisfaction of employees are identified. As part of the post-hoc analysis, the observed dependencies of the mean values of importance and satisfaction with the effect of selected motivation factors are examined in more detail. Based on the results, the fact that employee motivation in logistics companies in Slovakia and the Czech Republic is different, can be concluded. In addition, it varies according to the size of the enterprise. These findings are important for the members of management because of the globalization of economies and multiculturalism of workers' teams in both logistics and also other enterprises. Finding a variety of preferences for motivational needs and job satisfaction does not make it possible to develop unified motivation programs. The needs of employees regarding the size of the enterprise and also the country of origin must be taken into account by the management of an enterprise.
