Title: Lactic acid bacteria as probiotics in sustainable development of aquaculture
Authors: Anna Chizhayeva, Alma Amangeldi, Yelena Oleinikova, А.Ж. АЛЫБАЕВА, А.К. САДАНОВ
Year: 2022
Venue: Aquatic Living Resources
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1051/alr/2022011
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4292262769

Abstract:
Industrial aquaculture is a dynamic area capable of solving problems of healthy nutrition and food security. Increase of organic pollution, number of opportunistic microorganisms in the aquatic environment of fish farms and the global contamination of feed by mycotoxigenic fungi are serious problems of industrial fish cultivation. The results are weakening of the general condition of fish, immunosuppression, the occurrence of various diseases complicated by drug resistance, the accumulation of antibiotics and chemical compounds in tissues. Probiotics can be an alternative to antibiotics. The use of probiotics is also one of the biological methods for maintaining and restoring the normal physiological state of fish and increasing their productivity. The aim of this review is the scientific justification of the use of lactic acid bacteria as the safest microorganisms in the development of probiotics for aquaculture. The review presented provides criteria for selecting candidate strains for effective probiotics development. The advantages of lactic acid bacteria for the prevention or control of infectious diseases in cultured fish are considered. Lactic acid bacteria are representatives of the fish microbiota, they have antagonistic activity against opportunistic pathogens, fungi and viruses that cause microbiological spoilage of feed, pollute water bodies, and cause diseases of aquatic animals. The review provides information on various researches in which lactic acid bacteria or products derived from them have been used to assess their potential in aquaculture. Numerous scientific studies prove the value of this vast group of microorganisms for the prevention and treatment of fish diseases, for increasing the resistance of aquatic animals to infectious diseases and various stresses, for improving their survival and productivity, and for improving water sanitation in fish reservoirs. Increased use of effective probiotic lactic acid bacteria in aquaculture can make the fish sector safer, more productive and friendly to the environment and human well-being, and will contribute to the sustainable development of aquaculture.
