Title: Sustainable Waste Management Companies with Innovative Smart Solutions: A Systematic Review and Conceptual Model
Authors: Muhammad Farooq, Jie Cheng, Noor Ullah Khan, Roselina Ahmad Saufi, Nagina Kanwal, Hanieh Alipour Bazkiaei
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su142013146
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4306160497

Abstract:
Overflowing garbage bins and unnecessary truck visits to collect waste have always been core issues of sustainability and maintaining a green environment. In the recent past, a transition has been observed in waste management towards a better environment and the achievement of sustainability goals. Companies are not only focused on producing less but also transforming waste into energy and reusable products. This transition process needs to evolve through sustainable solutions and innovative marketing initiatives that increase awareness and education among end users. This study used a systematic literature review protocol to identify and review the available research on sustainable waste-management solutions, innovative marketing initiatives, and a proposed conceptual model. It analyzed the latest literature from 1976 to 2022 to assess waste-management trends using the Web of Sciences and Scopus databases. To evaluate the practical perspective, this study analyzed ten waste-management companies offering services in the USA, the UK, Korea, Finland, Ireland, Turkey, Brazil, Slovakia, Portugal, Denmark, and Canada to assess their technological and marketing development for the creation of a better future. It was found that Ecube, Enevo, smart bins, Compology, Bigbelly, Sensoneo, Citibrain, ACO recycling, Evrek, Rico, and BrighterBins focus more on technology and less on user awareness and marketing. There is minimal focus on education and empowerment of end users. Our study’s findings guide academics, practitioners, and policymakers to apply ambidextrousness in energy innovation, particularly in the waste-management sector. By implementing sustainable and innovative solutions, companies can not only reduce waste products, but they can also recover, recycle, and better dispose of the waste. However, to do so, companies also need to educate end users.
