Title: Resveratrol sustains intestinal barrier integrity, improves antioxidant capacity, and alleviates inflammation in the jejunum of ducks exposed to acute heat stress
Authors: Yang Chen, Pei Luo, Shi-Jian Chen, Zhi‐chao Deng, Xinliang Fu, Danning Xu, Yunbo Tian, Yunmao Huang, Wenjun Liu
Year: 2021
Venue: Poultry Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psj.2021.101459
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3196653620

Abstract:
Resveratrol, a natural antioxidant, anti-inflammatory plant extract, was found to have a protective effect in poultry subjected to heat stress. In this study, we strove to characterize resveratrol on intestinal of duck exposed to acute heat stress and investigate the underlying mechanism. A total of 120 Shan-ma ducks (60 days old) were randomly divided into 2 groups. The control group was fed a basal diet, and the resveratrol group was fed a basal diet supplemented with 400 mg/kg resveratrol. Animals in 2 groups were kept at a temperature of 24°C ± 2°C for 15 d. Then, animals of both groups were placed in an artificial climate room at 39°C. Twelve ducks of each group were sacrificed for sampling at 0, 30, and 60 min, respectively. Results indicated that resveratrol increased the ratio of villus height to crypt depth, increased the number of goblet cells, and reduced the histopathological damage of jejunum caused by acute heat stress. Furthermore, the gene expression of heat shock proteins (HSP60, HSP70, and HSP90) and tight junction proteins (CLDN1 and OCLN) was significantly increased in the resveratrol group compared to that in the control groups. Simultaneously, resveratrol significantly activated the SIRT1-NRF1/NRF2 signaling pathways, improved ATP level of jejunum, and increased SOD and CAT antioxidant enzymes activities. In addition, we found that the NF-κB/NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathways were repressed under acute heat stress. Meanwhile, supplement resveratrol further inhibited the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway, decreased protein level of NLRP3 and caspase1 p20, reduced the secretion of IL-1β. Taken together, our results indicate that resveratrol against the oxidative damage and inflammation injury in duck jejunum induced by heat stress via active SIRT1 signaling pathways.
