Title: Mining sustainability and circular economy in the context of economic security in Ukraine
Authors: Kateryna Markevych, S. Maistro, Viktor Koval, Viktor Paliukh
Year: 2022
Venue: Mining of Mineral Deposits
DOI: https://doi.org/10.33271/mining16.01.101
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4221104955

Abstract:
Purpose. The paper is devoted to the theoretical and methodological solution of the scientific problem of substantiating the relationship between the sustainability of mining and the implementation of the circular economy model in the context of the economic security of the state, with an emphasis on the importance of mineral resources. In addition, scientific and practical recommendations have been developed for regulating the circular economy in Ukraine in the context of ensuring economic security. Methods. The paper focuses on various experts and scientists` positions regarding environmental challenges, circular economy, mineral resource management, and economic security. Using the proposed approach of contour analysis of the relationship between the circular economy and the system-forming components of the economic security of the state, the place and role of the circular economy in the system of economic security have been determined. Findings. The research presents the results of a circular economy with the emphasis on mineral resources in the context of the economic security of the state. It has been determined that the circular economy concept combines the peculiarities of various system-forming economic security components (environmental, industrial, energy, mineral resource, social, food). It has been revealed that a circular economy is associated with various scientific trends of the ecological and economic system formation. Originality. The duality of the connection between the implementation of the circular economy model and the components of economic security has been proved, which opens up opportunities for strengthening economic security both through positive effects and certain short-term negative effects. Practical implications. A comprehensive analysis of using mineral resources in the circular economy in the context of the economic security of the state allows forming a number of scientific and practical recommendations for the sustainable ma-nagement of economic security in Ukraine. This makes it possible to create a multi-level system for managing the circular economy in Ukraine, taking into consideration mineral resources.
