Title: Sustainable compression-molded bamboo fibers/poly(lactic acid) green composites with excellent UV shielding performance
Authors: Binqi Fei, Haiyan Yang, Jing Yang, Dawei Wang, Hua Guo, Hua Hou, Saad Melhi, Ben Bin Xu, Hamdy Khamees Thabet, Zhanhu Guo, Zhengjun Shi
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Material Science and Technology
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2024.03.074
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4396545114

Abstract:
• A facile and sustainable strategy was proposed for bamboo fibers/poly(lactic acid) composites. • This strategy improved the dispersion and interfacial compatibility of bamboo fibers in poly(lactic acid). • Treated composites exhibited ultra-smooth surfaces, impressive transient properties, and outstanding UV shielding. • A viable approach is reported for producing high-value-added green composites. The increasing deployment of electronics in everyday life has generated great concerns regarding the effective disposal of waste from these components. Here, we focused on a facile sustainable and economical strategy to provide ideas for this issue. This strategy relied on using appropriate mechanical treatment and sodium lignosulfonate coating to improve the dispersion and interfacial compatibility of bamboo fibers in poly(lactic acid). By optimising the particle size and concentration of sodium lignosulphonate, high value-added and green composites were prepared using sectional pressurization with a venting procedure. The treated composite displayed an ultra-smooth surface (roughness of 0.592 nm), impressive transient properties (disintegration and degradation behaviour after 30 d), and outstanding ultraviolet (UV) shielding properties (100 %). These properties hold the promise of being an excellent substrate for electronic devices, especially for high-precision processing, transient electronics, and UV damage prevention. The satisfactory interfacial compatibility of the composites was confirmed by detailed characterisation regarding the related physicochemical properties. This investigation offers a sustainable approach for producing high value-added green composites from biomass and biomass-derived materials. A facile, sustainable, and economical strategy relied on appropriate mechanical treatment and sodium lignosulfonate coating was reported to improve the dispersion and interfacial compatibility of bamboo fibers in poly(lactic acid). This investigation offers a sustainable approach for producing high value-added green composites from biomass and biomass-derived materials.
