Title: Active methodologies and curricular sustainability in teacher training
Authors: Estefanía Martínez Valdivia, María Carmen Pegalajar Palomino, Antonio Burgos García
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/ijshe-05-2022-0168
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4321138060

Abstract:
Purpose Changes in society, the economy and health require a response from higher education regarding the training of professionals, specifically, future teachers. In this sense, active methodologies constitute, in line with the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, a key strategic element in teacher training, given the need to educate for sustainability and social responsibility (SR). This study aims to examine innovative teaching-learning experiences based on the use of active methodologies and the interaction with sustainability and SR on the part of university students in Education. Design/methodology/approach The methodology constitutes a systematic review of the qualitative, inductive and exploratory literature, on the basis of the PRISMA declaration principles. The sample is composed of research published between 2011 and 2021 in the world’s most important scientific databases in the educational context (WoS, Scopus and Eric-ProQuest). Findings This study reveals the methodologies that are most commonly used in ecological literacy, their implications for the acquisition of competencies in terms of curriculum sustainability and their relationship with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and SR. Higher education must reflect and demonstrate awareness of its social mission and pedagogical effectiveness, to transform education, taking as a reference the sustainability and SR in the university student’s curriculum. Research limitations/implications One of the main limitations of this study is the scarcity of research studies that include, jointly, the key descriptors analysed in this contribution such as teacher training, active methodologies, sustainability and SR. Another limitation to observe in this work is related to having considered as inclusion criteria solely research published in open access journals, since other research published in closed access journals is omitted. Originality/value This work demonstrates the usefulness of active methodologies in the training and professional development of future Education students in “sustainability”.
