Title: Sustainability of Implementing Enterprise Architecture in the Solar Power Generation Manufacturing Industry
Authors: Djarot Hindarto, Richardus Eko Indrajit, Erick Dazki
Year: 2021
Venue: SinkrOn
DOI: https://doi.org/10.33395/sinkron.v6i1.11115
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3204037861

Abstract:
In recent years, Solar power plants are currently developed rapidly, where solar power plants don't cause environmental damage. This generator utilizes sunlight as its input source which environmentally friendly, when sunlight is converted into direct current and voltage that can be stored in batteries. Therefore, the solar energy industry needs to have high efficiency, competitive pricing, and durability. With the right information technologies and developing application systems, it can help to optimize business processes and integrating information systems. But the fact there are many industries that do not apply information technology correctly into their business. In this research, provide to the best solution for applying the enterprise architecture framework correctly. The purpose of this paper is to design a manufacturing industry information system that is in accordance with the business model canvas and enterprise architecture. The design also discusses the development of a large and integrated information system with other systems. The study of Business Model Canvas is a business model that can explain and focus on nine business aspects with a solid strategy. Studies of the ArchiMate core Framework is the framework used to classify elements of the ArchiMate core language. These two methods are expected to be able to design an enterprise information system architecture consisting of business architecture, application architecture, information architecture and technology architecture as a result of the study. The result is a more complete system design to meet system requirements for users, integrated with existing system modules and no system duplication occurs.
