Title: Artificial intelligence for Sustainable Development Goals: Bibliometric patterns and concept evolution trajectories
Authors: Aakash Singh, Anurag Kanaujia, Vivek Kumar Singh, Ricardo Vinuesa
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainable Development
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/sd.2706
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385423139

Abstract:
Abstract The development of artificial intelligence (AI) as a field has impacted almost all aspects of human life. More recently it has found a role in addressing developmental challenges, specifically the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). However, there are not enough systematic studies on analysis of the role of AI research towards the SDGs. Therefore, this article attempts to bridge this gap by identifying the major bibliometric trends and concept‐evolution trajectories in the area of AI applications for sustainable‐development goals. The research publication data for the last 20 years in the areas of artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, and so forth, is obtained and computationally analysed using a framework comprising bibliometrics, path analysis and content analysis. The findings show an incremental trend in overall publications on the application of AI for SDGs across the different regions of the world. SDGs 3 (good health &amp; well‐being) and 7 (affordable and clean energy) are found as the areas with the most applications of AI. In SDG3, the literature reflects application of AI techniques such as deep learning for precision and personalised medicine while in SDG7, a number of studies have employed AI techniques for the integration of systems for efficient generation of solar power and improving the energy efficiency of a building. Furthermore, SDG 4 (quality education), SDG 13 (climate action), SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities) and SDG 16 (peace, justice and strong institutions) are the other SDGs where AI approaches and techniques are applied. The analytical results present a detailed insight of application of AI for achieving the SDGs.
