Title: A systematic managerial perspective on the environmentally sustainable construction practices of UK
Authors: Rashid Maqbool, Ifeanyi Echezona Amaechi
Year: 2022
Venue: Environmental Science and Pollution Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-022-20255-5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4224440858

Abstract:
Construction industry, though is the backbone of any economy, still add a significant portion of emissions, utilising energy supplies, and reasoning in bulk of waste production. The sustainable construction practices are the only solution considering the global climatic challenges. Owing its enormous benefits, a lot of sustainable constructions projects are built around the world, both in developed and developing countries. However, considering the innovative material and technological involvement, and lack of knowledge and expertise, such sustainable construction projects are not always successful. This research aims to investigate the barriers and factors impacting sustainability in the construction projects. More specifically, its primary purpose is to have the perspective of managers on the actors and barriers of sustainable construction in the UK. A mixed method was used to collect the data, one in the mean of questionnaire survey, and the second through the case study. To acquire quantitative data, a snowball sampling was applied to collect the questionnaire survey based data from 128 UK construction managerial positions, such as system managers, sustainability managers, project managers and construction managers, etc. The quantitative acquired data was analysed using mean analysis, relevant importance index (RII), correlation and multiple hierarchical regression. The RII analysis discovered that sustainable construction designs is a top drivers of sustainable construction practices, whereas excessive concentration on price is found as the top impediment of sustainable construction practices. It was also shown by the hierarchical regression analysis that stakeholders factors, project management factors and technological factors significantly impact to sustainable construction practice. However, surprisingly the role of barriers was not observed in the sustainable construction practices of the UK. The same findings were also confirmed with the case study analysis of the Kier Group plc, which believes in the sustainable construction practices. Hence, it is needful for the positive sides of these factors be considered and duly exploited. The research findings provide interesting industrial insights towards sustainable construction projects, while providing useful directions to the industrialists, policymakers and construction professionals, not only by reducing the unfavourable effects, but also by proposing the intention of restoring factors of the environment, economic and social sustainability.
