Title: Electronic waste management scenario in Bangladesh: policies, recommendations, and case study at Dhaka and Chittagong for a sustainable solution
Authors: Hridoy Roy, Md. Shahinoor Islam, Shafaul Haque, M.H. Riyad
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainable Technology and Entrepreneurship
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stae.2022.100025
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4288809667

Abstract:
Bangladesh produces 3 million metric ton (MMT) of e-waste, including ship-breaking yards, each year. The leachate from dumped e-waste contains toxic heavy metals and organics that are detrimental to animals, humans, and the environment. The proper legislation and systematic e-waste management strategies have not yet been established in Bangladesh. This study reported the upgradation of the e-waste policies, e.g., the Factory Act, 1965 to Hazardous Waste (e-waste) Management, 2021 of the government of Bangladesh (GoB). A field survey was conducted for an in-depth understanding of the current scenario of e-waste management in Dhaka and Chittagong and total e-waste streamflow has been presented. The usage trend of electronic products (cell phones, refrigerators, television, computers, and air conditioners), the average lifetime of these products, and knowledge of e-waste were explored by the face-to-face questionnaire-based interviews. Cell phones were found to be the significant contributors to e-waste in Bangladesh. The study suggests that systematic e-waste management policies can improve the total scenario. An integrated e-waste recycling facility based on life cycle analysis (LCA) and materials flow analysis (MFA) must be introduced. The recycling process has been discussed, and recommendation has been pointed out for Bangladesh. Based on the study, printed circuit boards (PCBs)-based metal recovery business model from mobiles and computers worth $1 billion/yr by 2030 has been proposed. State-of-the-art technologies in recycling plants and disposal site selection criteria are essential factors for the safer management of e-waste in Bangladesh. Environmental awareness has to be developed for a sustainable and long-term e-waste management system.
