Title: Mindful Sustainable Consumption and Sustainability Chatbots in Fast Fashion Retailing During and After the COVID-19 Pandemic
Authors: Marzia Del Prete
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Management and Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5539/jms.v12n1p19
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4206758276

Abstract:
The COVID-19 pandemic and ecological crisis are paving the way for new consumption models based on customers&amp;rsquo; conscious choices and the subsequent integration of sustainable policies into retailers&amp;rsquo; business strategies. As a consequence, the current consumer trends suggest that more people are becoming aware of their consumption standards and their repercussion on the environment and society. Statistics demonstrate that, in their purchasing processes, these &amp;ldquo;mindful customers&amp;rdquo; now search for a sustainable, self-sufficient way of living in harmony with nature. This paper argues that artificial intelligence (AI) is able to facilitate this process in the marketplace. More specifically, mindfulness with the support of AI technologies could be a plausible way to activate sustainable consumption patterns for avoiding overconsumption. The life-changing ability of mindful consumption is reviewed in this paper across domains of sustainability. Using a comprehensive literature review, the paper first outlines the theoretical and conceptual foundations of the mindful sustainable consumption (MSC) approach that fills the literature gap that almost always separates mindful consumption from sustainability. Second, the new conceptual approach is applied through a strategic framework in the field of fast fashion retailing through the use of AI-powered chatbots. In particular, the study defines a new category of chatbots, named sustainability chatbots (SC), which could convey mindful and sustainable consumption choices. The paper highlights that the MSC approach combined with the support of SC could enable marketing managers to create the appropriate context for embedding sustainability into consumer behaviour and fast fashion retailers&amp;rsquo; strategies from a value co-creation perspective.
