Title: Sustainability of Higher Education: Study of Student Opinions about the Possibility of Replacing Teachers with AI Technologies
Authors: Valery Okulich-Kazarin, Аrtem Аrtyukhov, Łukasz Skowron, Аrtem Аrtyukhov, Oleksandr Dluhopolskyi, Wiktor Cwynar
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16010055
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4389997304

Abstract:
The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) has affected higher education. Students now receive new tools that optimize the performance of current tasks. Universities have also begun implementing AI technologies to help university teachers and improve the quality of educational services and solve the Sustainable Development Goal 4. Hypothetically, it is possible to replace university teachers by using AI technologies. This is a hidden conflict of Sustainable Development Goal 4 and Sustainable Development Goal 8. This research aimed to examine the perceptions of Eastern European students about the possibility of replacing university teachers through AI technologies. The authors used an information study with a bibliometric analysis of 2000 sources, planning the experiments and compiling the questionnaire, surveying 599 students using an electronic questionnaire and cloud technologies, statistical processing questionnaires using Excel tables, and verifying statistical hypotheses. Verification of statistical hypotheses for replies of 599 respondents showed that more than 10% of the surveyed students from Eastern European universities are confident that AI will replace university teachers in five years. It was shown that the opinions of students in the 1st stage (undergraduate study) from the countries of the European Union and countries outside the European Union have significant differences. The obtained results were proven using one-sided testing and standard hypothesis testing level, α = 0.05. The article was completed with multilevel managerial and pedagogical recommendations. These recommendations are designed to increase higher education’s sustainability in AI implementation.
