Title: Neuro-Competence Approach for Sustainable Engineering
Authors: Susana Suarez-Fernandez de Miranda, Francisco Aguayo-González, María Jesús Ávila-Gutiérrez, Antonio Córdoba Roldán
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13084389
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3156997439

Abstract:
Manufacturing systems under Industry 4.0, and their transition towards Industry 5.0, take into account the Quintuple Helix innovation model, associated with the sustainable development goals (SDGs) set by the UN and Horizon 2030, in which companies focus on operational efficiency in terms of the use and minimisation of resources for the protection of the environment. In this respect, the implementation of the circular economy model, which requires engineers to acquire appropriate competencies, enabling companies to establish this model at the manufacturing level. Moreover, competence has always been a priority for both the professional and the company. In this sense, connectivism has been called a learning theory for the digital era; this is the reason why a review of the state-of-the-art developments of this paradigm focused on engineering has been carried out. In this sense, the potential of the digital transformation in instruction to formulate an engineering model based on neuro-competences is of great interest, taking the connectivist paradigm as a methodological axis. To this end, a first bibliometric analysis has been carried out to identify the drivers on which to base the design of the neuro-competencies of the instructional engineering environment and the trend towards curriculum development under dual training models. The bibliographical research carried out on the connectivist paradigm has served to identify the trends followed to date in education within the subject area of engineering. These trends have not fully taken into account the leading role of the human factor within the socio-technical cyber-physical systems of sustainable manufacturing (SCSSM). The focus was more on the technology than on the adaptation of the uniqueness of the human factor and the tasks entrusted to him, which entails an additional complexity that needs to be addressed in both academic and professional contexts. In light of the foregoing, an improvement to the acquisition and management of competencies has been proposed to the academic, professional and dual engineering contexts. It is based on the transversal inclusion of the concept of neuro-competence applied to the competence engineering (CE) model, transforming it into the neuro-competence engineering (NCE) model. The foregoing provides a better match between the characteristics of the human factor and the uniqueness of the tasks performed by the engineer, incorporating activity theory (AT), the law of variety required (LVR), the connectivist paradigm and neuroscience as a transversal driver of innovation through fractality. This proposal enables a ubiquitous and sustainable learning model throughout the entire academic and professional life cycle of the engineer, placing it sustainably at the heart of the instructional and professional cyber-physical socio-technical system, thus complying with the SDGs set by the UN and Horizon 2030.
