Title: Foreign Direct Investment, Technological Innovations, Energy Use, Economic Growth, and Environmental Sustainability Nexus: New Perspectives in BRICS Economies
Authors: Abdul Rauf, Najabat Ali, Muhammad Sadiq, Saira Abid, Shahzad Afzal Kayani, Abid Hussain
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151814013
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386917930

Abstract:
In the current era, economic growth is inevitable for global prosperity but achieving sustainable economic development is one of the significant challenges for the developing world. The present study explores the impacts of foreign direct investment, energy use, and technological innovations on the economic growth and environmental quality of BRICS countries for the period 1990–2018. We used the augmented mean group (AMG), the common correlated effects mean group estimator (CCEMG), and several other modern-day empirical techniques to analyze data. The findings show that foreign direct investment increases economic growth but harms the environmental sustainability of BRICS countries. Moreover, we have seen that energy use is directly proportional to economic growth and CO2 emissions. This confirms that energy use is one of the factors which harms the environmental quality in BRICS economies. Likewise, economic growth increases CO2 emissions. On the other hand, technology innovation has a direct relationship with economic growth but an inverse relationship with CO2 emissions as it improves the environmental sustainability of the BRICS region. This research adds to the existing literature by exploring the interplay between FDI, innovation, energy use, economic growth, and environmental outcomes in the context of major emerging economies. The study’s findings provide empirical evidence on the role of these factors in shaping the environmental outcomes in the BRICS economies, and they have implications for policymakers and stakeholders in addressing environmental challenges such as global warming and climate change.
