Title: Proton exchange membrane fuel cells in electric vehicles: Innovations, challenges, and pathways to sustainability
Authors: Tarek Abedin, Jagadeesh Pasupuleti, Johnny Koh Siaw Paw, Yaw Chong Tak, Monowar Mahmud, Md Pauzi Abdullah, Mohammad Nur‐E‐Alam
Year: 2025
Venue: Journal of Power Sources
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2025.236769
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4408447571

Abstract:
Proton exchange membrane fuel cells are leading the shift to sustainable energy, especially in fuel-cell electric vehicles. In PEMFCs, hydrogen is converted into electricity which contributes to reduced greenhouse gas emissions and decreased dependence on fossil fuels. Many works have been conducted to improve the power density and longevity of the whole system to be adopted in vehicles. The power density was considerably increased by a stack design incorporating lightweight material such as graphene-coated Ni form and weak carbon nanofiber films. Hydrogen refueling failures such as overfilling with hydrogen, hydrogen flow overfill, and hydrogen leakage need mitigation by developing advanced materials and the improvement of refueling techniques. Hybrid Energy Storage Systems focus on combining technologies for storing electrical energy, structural and functional elements, and the optimization of ranges of power-management novel approaches and their principles. However, dynamic response performance, low-cost hydrogen refueling infrastructure, and diverse extensions with varying hydrogen capacity remain challenges. This article provides a comprehensive review of recent technological developments, policy frameworks, and energy sector developments for PEMFC applications in the automobile industry aiming to forecast recent achievements in the fields of PEMFC power management, cell structure, and optimization methodologies of power system energy. • Hybrid Energy Storage Systems optimize power and minimize PEMFC stress. • Cutting-edge EMS enhances PEMFC efficiency and lifetime in FCEVs. • Cascade refueling cuts hydrogen energy use by up to 20 %. • Amended stack design upsurges power output and diminishes volume by 90 %.
