Title: Modeling of 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) for Sustainable Construction Waste Reduction: A Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM)
Authors: Musa Mohammed, Nasir Shafiq, Ali Elmansoury, Al‐Baraa Abdulrahman Al‐Mekhlafi, Ehab Farouk Rached, Noor Amila Wan Abdullah Zawawi, Abdulrahman Haruna, Aminu Darda’u Rafindadi, Muhammad Bello Ibrahim
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su131910660
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3201893633

Abstract:
There is a lack of awareness and knowledge among the Malaysian construction industry about waste management reduction. Numerous nations worldwide have understood and have incorporated the concept of the 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) in waste management, and it has worked out well. This study investigated construction waste issues and developed a model for sustainable reduction by applying 3R using a partial least squares structural equation modeling PLS-SEM in Malaysia. The research methodology adopted the quantitative and qualitative approaches by sending a survey questionnaire to the relevant stakeholders to obtain their views or perceptions and interviewing an expert in the related field about waste reduction in the Malaysian construction industry. Three hundred thirty questionnaires were collected within six months of submission. The significant factors are determined using mean ranking for the reduce, reuse and recycle elements. Based on the results, the exploratory power of the study model is considered sustainable with R2 values of 0.83%. At the same time, the results of relationships between improving factors, policy-related factors, construction waste generated, and sustainable construction waste reduction were significant. Also, the findings revealed that the top factors for waste generation on reducing, reusing, and recycling are lack of design and documentation, and lack of guidance for effective construction waste-collecting. The paper will explore different and dynamic practices, such as recycling, reuse of construction waste management cost reduction, enabling stakeholders and managers to estimate and quantify the actual size of CWM costs and benefits for sustainable development goals.
