Title: A comprehensive review on the impact of Industry 4.0 on the development of a sustainable environment
Authors: Md. Abdus Shabur
Year: 2024
Venue: Discover Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s43621-024-00290-7
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4398200114

Abstract:
Abstract The application of Industry 4.0 technology has substantial prospects for future innovation and corporate growth. This research study investigates the influence of Industry 4.0 technologies on the establishment of environmental sustainability in the manufacturing sector and other associated industries. Industry 4.0 and its associated technologies, including the Internet of Things (IoT) and cyber-physical systems, have a detrimental effect on environmental sustainability. This is due to factors such as air pollution, improper waste disposal, and excessive consumption of raw materials, information, and energy. The approach employed in this study is an extensive review of a literature review comprising 207 manuscripts that explore subjects pertaining to Industry 4.0 and environmental sustainability. Currently, there is a gap between the current and intended state of affairs. Production is happening in a paradigm that lacks sustainability, which is why this research examines the impact of Industry 4.0 on environmental sustainability and the relevant aspects of Industry 4.0. One of the objective of this study is to examine the notable advantages of Industry 4.0 in the context of sustainable manufacturing. The other objective of this study are to ascertain the specific tools and components associated with Industry 4.0 that have a role in promoting the progress of a sustainable ecosystem and to do a comprehensive analysis of existing literature to find out the effectiveness of technologies of Industry 4.0 in promoting environmental sustainability. This study identifies and examines 18 significant uses of Industry 4.0 that contribute to the development of a sustainable environment. This research shows that the convergence of Industry 4.0 and the sustainable development goals improves environmental sustainability by establishing ecological support that ensures superior environmental performance with a greater positive influence than previously. This paper aims to assist stakeholders and organizations in addressing current environmental concerns by implementing innovative technologies. This study is novel in that it illustrates the integration of Industry 4.0 and its technologies with sustainable development goals, resulting in a sustainable Industry 4.0 that combines environmental protection and sustainability.
