Title: Sustainable energy transition in Central Asia: status and challenges
Authors: Mirjana Radovanović, Sanja Filipović, Andrea Andrejevic Panić
Year: 2021
Venue: Energy Sustainability and Society
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13705-021-00324-2
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200220404

Abstract:
Abstract Background The paper aims at gaining insight into the implementation of the process of sustainable energy transition in the countries of Central Asia: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. Information and scientific studies on the situation in these countries is scarce. On the other hand, these are resource-rich countries, some are exporters, and all are energy transit countries. The main aim of the paper was realized by applying the energy policies and regulatory framework analysis, defining priorities and monitoring selected indicators prescribed by the International Energy Agency . Methods The following methods were used in the quantitative analysis: measurement of data intercorrelation ; Pearson test of correlation ; principal component analysis (with rotation method: Oblimin with Kaiser normalization ); Kaiser–Meyer–Olkin measure of sampling adequacy , Bartlett’s test of sphericity and t-test . The period covered by the quantitative analysis: 1990–2018, provided that the available data for 2019 or 2020 were used in certain cases. Results Sustainable energy transition is, at the analysis of policies and data, at a low level. There is no adequate regulatory framework in these countries. The energy transition takes place exclusively within the framework of providing enough energy, without regard to sustainability, while even energy exporting countries are not making efforts to achieve a sustainable energy transition. Conclusions There are no indications that the energy transition in the countries of Central Asia will take place according to the standards of the European Union or global bodies. On the other hand, having in mind the natural resources of the mentioned countries and the specific geopolitical position, monitoring the changes is of special importance. The impact of changes on sustainability can be determined mainly ex post.
