Title: Chronic adolescent stress causes sustained impairment of cognitive flexibility and hippocampal synaptic strength in female rats
Authors: Molly M. Hyer, Gladys A. Shaw, Priyodarshan Goswamee, Samya K. Dyer, Chloe M. Burns, E. Soriano, Connie Sánchez, Sydney A. Rowson, A. Rory McQuiston, Gretchen N. Neigh
Year: 2021
Venue: Neurobiology of Stress
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100303
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3127620907

Abstract:
Females that experience chronic stress during development, particularly adolescence, are the most vulnerable group to stress-induced disease. While considerable attention has been devoted to stress-induced manifestation of anxiety, depression, and PTSD, evidence indicates that a history of chronic stress is also a risk factor for cognitive decline and dementia - with females again in a higher risk group. This interplay between sex and stress history indicates specific mechanisms drive neural dysfunction across the lifespan. The presence of sex and stress steroid receptors in the hippocampus provides a point of influence for these variables to drive changes in cognitive function. Here, we used a rodent model of chronic adolescent stress (CAS) to determine the extent to which CAS modifies glutamatergic signaling resulting in cognitive dysfunction. Male and female Wistar rats born in-house remained non-stressed (NS), unmanipulated aside from standard cage cleaning, or were exposed to either physical restraint (60 min) or social defeat (CAS) each day (6 trials each), along with social isolation, throughout the adolescent period (PND 35-47). Cognition was assessed in adult (PND 80-130) male and female rats (n = 10-12) using the Barnes Maze task and the Attention Set-Shift task. Whole hippocampi were extracted from a second cohort of male and female rats (NS and CAS; n = 9-10) and processed for RNA sequencing. Brain tissue from the first cohort (n = 6) was processed for density of glutamatergic synaptic markers (GluA1, NMDA1a, and synaptophysin) or whole-cell patch clamping (n = 4) to determine glutamatergic activity in the hippocampus. Females with a history of chronic stress had shorter latencies to locate the goal box than NS controls during acquisition learning but showed an increased latency to locate the new goal box during reversal learning. This reversal deficit persisted across domains as females with a history of stress required more trials to reach criterion during the reversal phases of the Attention Set-Shift task compared to controls. Ovariectomy resulted in greater performance variability overall during reversal learning with CAS females showing worse performance. Males showed no effects of CAS history on learning or memory performance. Bioinformatic prediction using gene ontology categorization indicated that in females, postsynaptic membrane gene clusters, specifically genes related to glutamatergic synapse remodeling, were enriched with a history of stress. Structural analysis indicated that CAS did not alter glutamate receptor density in females. However, functionally, CAS females had a decreased AMPA/NMDA-dependent current ratio compared to controls indicating a weakening in synaptic strength in the hippocampus. Males showed only a slight change in density of NMDA1a labeling in the CA3 region with a history of stress. The data observed here suggest that females are at risk for impaired cognitive flexibility following a history of adolescent stress, possibly driven by changes in glutamatergic signaling.
