Title: Innovative Professional Learning Communities and Sustainable Education Practices through Digital Transformation
Authors: Maja Vičič Krabonja, Simona Kustec, Vesna Skrbinjek, Boris Aberšek, Andrej Flogie
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16146250
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4400872965

Abstract:
Education is the most important part of sustainable society development. Traditional approaches to permanent lifelong educator training often fail to produce lasting changes in teaching practices (UN, Goal 4). This paper examines how educator involvement in a professional learning community (PLC) ensures equitable quality education and promotes lifelong learning opportunities for all and a sustainable digital transformation of the teaching and learning process. Participation in PLC and the use of contemporary learning environments positively impact the quality of educators’ work, thereby enhancing the overall educational process. This study utilised a quantitative methodology, employing both descriptive and inferential statistics to analyse the data. Results indicate that a balanced integration of formal PLC structures and guidance, combined with elements of a non-formal, broader PLC and external incentives and support (such as projects), can surpass mere exchanges of best practices, foster innovation, and support the sustainable digital transformation of educators. This approach leads to a sustainable shift in pedagogical paradigms. The PLC_IP model (focused on including digital technologies and effective teaching strategies) enhances collective educator efficacy, contributing to improved teaching quality. For PLCs to achieve sustainability, they must be dynamic entities that adapt to the evolving educational landscape, ensuring their continued relevance and impact with rising completion rates over time. Our findings underscore the importance of innovative PLCs in driving sustainable educational development and improvement and provide a framework for future research and practical applications in educational settings. In addition, PLCs can strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development (UN, Goal 17).
