Title: Comparison of Higher Education in Pakistan and China: A Sustainable Development in Student’s Perspective
Authors: Hasnain Raza, Anwar Ali, Nazia Rafiq, Xing Liu, Tahseen Asif, Chengjie Jing
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su15054327
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4322743094

Abstract:
Education has played a central role and has had cross-cutting impact on all aspects of human life. China–Pakistan friendly relations have a long history. They cooperate in many parts of life, especially education, i.e., beneficial for better future education exchanges between countries. This study was conducted on the education systems of China and Pakistan to understand the higher education system through a student questionnaire. This research work aimed to investigate the perceptions of Pakistani and Chinese university students on sustainable development in higher education institutes (HEIs). HEIs and universities perform a unique and vital role in society by acting as intellectuals, entrepreneurs, and problem solvers. This section presents state of the art in sustainable development, the role of sustainable development in higher education, and the students’ perspectives. There were 327 questionnaires out of 400, with 27 incomplete replies being discarded, leaving us with 300 complete surveys. The literature and research theme were used to construct the hypotheses of this study. PLS-SEM, a statistical approach that utilized the partial least squares to model structural equations, was used to evaluate the hypotheses. The analysis must take into consideration all parameters. Smart PLS 3.3.9 was used for PLS-SEM analysis in this study. The results showed that quality assurance and students’ satisfaction were significant factors related to sustainable university development programs. Moreover, there was a good correlation between technological improvements in education institutes, teachers’ capacity-building programs, and student–teacher (learning–teaching) relationships. Pakistani institutions comprised 50% of the study’s participants, while students from Chinese universities comprised the remaining 50%. Among all participants, 9.66 percent of respondents were enrolled in Ph.D. programs, 37.67 percent were enrolled in an MS/M.Phil. programs, and 52.67 percent were undergraduate students. Moreover, this study also indicated that technical improvements and advancements positively correlated with sustainable development programs for Pakistani students.
