Title: Geopolymer Concrete: A Material for Sustainable Development in Indian Construction Industries
Authors: Manvendra Verma, Nirendra Dev, Ibadur Rahman, Mayank Nigam, Mohd. Ahmed, Javed Mallick
Year: 2022
Venue: Crystals
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/cryst12040514
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4224245102

Abstract:
Geopolymer concrete (GPC) is a new material in the construction industry, with different chemical compositions and reactions involved in a binding material. The pozzolanic materials (industrial waste like fly ash, ground granulated blast furnace slag (GGBFS), and rice husk ash), which contain high silica and alumina, work as binding materials in the mix. Geopolymer concrete is economical, low energy consumption, thermally stable, easily workable, eco-friendly, cementless, and durable. GPC reduces carbon footprints by using industrial solid waste like slag, fly ash, and rice husk ash. Around one tonne of carbon dioxide emissions produced one tonne of cement that directly polluted the environment and increased the world’s temperature by increasing greenhouse gas production. For sustainable construction, GPC reduces the use of cement and finds the alternative of cement for the material’s binding property. So, the geopolymer concrete is an alternative to Portland cement concrete and it is a potential material having large commercial value and for sustainable development in Indian construction industries. The comprehensive survey of the literature shows that geopolymer concrete is a perfect alternative to Portland cement concrete because it has better physical, mechanical, and durable properties. Geopolymer concrete is highly resistant to acid, sulphate, and salt attack. Geopolymer concrete plays a vital role in the construction industry through its use in bridge construction, high-rise buildings, highways, tunnels, dams, and hydraulic structures, because of its high performance. It can be concluded from the review that sustainable development is achieved by employing geopolymers in Indian construction industries, because it results in lower CO2 emissions, optimum utilization of natural resources, utilization of waste materials, is more cost-effective in long life infrastructure construction, and, socially, in financial benefits and employment generation.
