Title: Potential of Functionalized Polyolefins in a Sustainable Polymer Economy: Synthetic Strategies and Applications
Authors: Lidia Jasińska-Walc, M. Bouyahyi, R. Duchateau
Year: 2022
Venue: Accounts of Chemical Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00195
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4285729714

Abstract:
Polymers play a crucial role in our modern life as no other material exists that is so versatile, moldable, and lightweight. Consequently, the demand for polymers will continue to grow with the human population, modernization, and technological developments. However, depleted fossil resources, increasing plastic waste production, ocean pollution, and related growing emission of greenhouse gases has led to a change in the way we think about the use of polymers. Although polymers were never designed to be recycled, it is clear that a linear polymers economy is no longer sustainable. The design for recycling and reuse and life-cycle analyses will become increasingly important factors when deciding on which polymer to choose for a certain application. Of all polymers, polyolefins have the lowest life-cycle environmental impact and even outperform renewable polymers. However, polyolefins are chemically inert and reveal a low surface energy. Combining their excellent mechanical properties with the ability to adhere to other materials or create self-assembled or nanostructured materials would widen the application window of polyolefins even more.This Account covers part of our personal account in the field of functionalized polyolefin synthesis and their application development. We start with addressing the challenge of finding suitable catalysts that tolerate nucleophilic functionalities, which tends to poison most electrophilic catalysts even when passivated with, for example, an aluminum alkyl. We argued that lowering of the oxidation state of a titanium-based catalyst might lower the electrophilicity of the metal center. Indeed, this simple approach resulted in an unprecedentedly high tolerance toward aluminum alkyl-passivated alkenols during their copolymerization with ethylene. Interestingly, catalyst deactivation was much less pronounced during the copolymerization of propylene and aluminum-passivated alkenols, clearly demonstrating the protective effect of the methyl branch in the growing polymer. Because the use of randomly functionalized polypropylenes is rather underdeveloped, as compared to the corresponding randomly functionalized polyethylenes, we focused on potential applications of the former material. Atactic or low-crystalline hydroxyl- and carboxylic acid-functionalized propylene-based co- and terpolymers form elastomers with interesting properties that can be influenced by enhancing the hydrogen bonding within the system or by creating ionomers. The polar functionalities cluster together in domains that can host small polar molecules such as, for example, a pH indicator, thus affording useful sensors. The functionalized polyolefins can also be used as precursors for amphiphilic graft copolymers, undergoing self-assembly and therefore being suitable for nanoporous membrane preparation. The graft copolymers also proved to be effective compatibilizers in various polymer blends.
