Title: Sustainable Decarbonization of Road Transport: Policies, Current Status, and Challenges of Electric Vehicles
Authors: G. R. Patil, Gayatri Pode, Boucar Diouf, Ramchandra Pode
Year: 2024
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su16188058
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4402780268

Abstract:
Carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) are the primary causes behind the current rise in global temperatures and climate change. CO2, which is present in the atmosphere in significant quantities, is contributing more to the warming effect than other gases that are present at smaller levels. The transportation sector is contributing significantly to the total global CO2 emissions (21.7%), with road transport accounting for 74%. Switching from gasoline-powered vehicles to electric vehicles (EVs) is the most practical way to decarbonize land transportation. We have gathered information on EVs from the USA, China, India, and a few EU members for the current review. The collected data regarding government policies, subsidies, and other rules and laws, the present status of EV technology and performance, market scenarios and future projections of EVs, EV regulations in the regions with the highest penetration rates, consumer perspectives and barriers, and the decarbonization of land transportation were analyzed. The adoption of electric vehicles has advanced significantly in some parts of the world, primarily as a result of government policies that include subsidies, other regulations, and laws that globally lower the cost of acquisition and ownership for owners of electric vehicles (EVs) relative to those of internal combustion engines (ICEs). Favorable government policies have been associated with the success of EV adoption in Norway, China, the United States of America (USA), the European Union (EU), and India. With more advantages than any other country, China is currently the world’s largest EV market. In addition, it has the highest number of EVs in use and the highest manufacturing capacity. Norway leads the world in the percentage of newly registered EVs at over 90%. China is competing with the USA for leadership in manufacturing and technology, especially in the areas of artificial intelligence (AI) and batteries. Favorable perceptions of consumers regarding EVs are vital in increasing the EV adoption rate. In order to achieve the goal of decarbonizing road transportation, we proposed that a number of factors—including government energy policies and regulatory standard development, necessary infrastructure investments and developments, AI incorporation in EVs, innovation in EV and battery technologies, and consumer perspectives in particular—play a crucial role.
