Title: Emerging diseases of Cannabis sativa and sustainable management
Authors: Zamir K. Punja
Year: 2021
Venue: Pest Management Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/ps.6307
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3127841696

Abstract:
Abstract Cultivation of cannabis plants ( Cannabis sativa L., marijuana) has taken place worldwide for centuries. In Canada, legalization of cannabis in October 2018 for the medicinal and recreational markets has spurned interest in large‐scale growing. This increased production has seen a rise in the incidence and severity of plant pathogens, causing a range of previously unreported diseases. The objective of this review is to highlight the important diseases currently affecting the cannabis and hemp industries in North America and to discuss various mitigation strategies. Progress in molecular diagnostics for pathogen identification and determining inoculum sources and methods of pathogen spread have provided useful insights. Sustainable disease management approaches include establishing clean planting stock, modifying environmental conditions to reduce pathogen development, implementing sanitation measures, and applying fungal and bacterial biological control agents. Fungicides are not currently registered for use and hence there are no published data on their efficacy. The greatest challenge remains in reducing microbial loads (colony‐forming units) on harvested inflorescences (buds). Contaminating microbes may be introduced during the cultivation and postharvest phases, or constitute resident endophytes. Failure to achieve a minimum threshold of microbes deemed to be safe for utilization of cannabis products can arise from conventional and organic cultivation methods, or following applications of beneficial biocontrol agents. The current regulatory process for approval of cannabis products presents a challenge to producers utilizing biological control agents for disease management. © 2021 The Author. Pest Management Science published by John Wiley &amp; Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
