Title: The influence of information and communication technology (ICT) on stakeholders' involvement and smart urban sustainability
Authors: Oluwagbemiga Paul Agboola, Faizah Mohammed Bashir, Yakubu Aminu Dodo, Mohamed Ahmed Said Mohamed, Ibtihaj Saad Rashed Alsadun
Year: 2023
Venue: Environmental Advances
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envadv.2023.100431
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4387399375

Abstract:
It is impossible to overstate the role that smart cities and the building resilience strategy play in the movement toward environmental sustainability, particularly in industrialized and developing nations. There has been a rise in the use of efficient systems to enhance built environment control and accomplish infrastructure development projects, and for this to be successful, countries around the globe, including Nigeria, need robust smart cities and buildings. Few researchers have looked at how smart cities and building projects might improve the sustainability practices of Nigeria's built environment in the context of environmental issues. The major research aim of this study is to investigate the role of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in advancing urban sustainability in the context of Lagos, Nigeria, amidst the city's rapid population growth and the implementation of smart city projects. The study's research questions include the following: First, How can information and communication technology (ICT) be leveraged to support the development of urban sustainability? Secondly, what is the impact of ICT on stakeholders' involvement and participation in urban sustainability? Thirdly, how can stakeholders' involvement and participation impact urban sustainability? Structural equation modeling using partial least squares (SmartPLS 3.0 Edition) as an analysis tool was used to assess the suggested model and the empirical study results in support of all the hypothesized associations. Results revealed that Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is positively associated with smart urban sustainability. Also, a positive and significant influence of ICT on consolidating stakeholder involvement and participation is paramount. Lastly, smart city and building initiatives have the potential to significantly improve urban sustainability. The implication of the study enables the possibility to optimize the impact of an ICT-based urban environment, thereby creating sustainable and resilient communities that meet the needs and priorities of all members of society.
