Title: Assessing farm sustainability: the IDEA4 method, a conceptual framework combining dimensions and properties of sustainability
Authors: Frédéric Zahm, Adeline Alonso Ugaglia, Jean-Marc Barbier, David Carayon, B. Del'Homme, Mohamed Gafsi, Pierre Gasselin, Clément Gestin, Sydney Girard, Laurence Guichard, Chantal Loyce, Vincent Manneville, Barbara Redlingshöfer, I. A. Rodrigues
Year: 2024
Venue: Cahiers Agricultures
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1051/cagri/2024001
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4393266044

Abstract:
This article presents the conceptual framework for assessing farm sustainability using the IDEA4 method. IDEA4 combines a dual assessment approach based on sustainable agriculture objectives and the properties of sustainable farming systems. It is rooted in the domains of strong sustainability, strong agroecology and the multifunctionality of agriculture. It takes into account the overall issues of sustainable agriculture. This conceptual framework has been used to construct 53 indicators for analysing farm sustainability using two complementary approaches. The first assesses sustainability by organising these 53 indicators according to the 3 normative dimensions of sustainable development (agroecological, socio-territorial, economic), structured into 13 components. This assessment relies on a scoring system based on 100 sustainability units for each of the 3 dimensions, which cannot offset each other. The second approach is used to assess sustainability by organising the same 53 indicators according to the 5 properties of sustainable agricultural systems (ability to produce and reproduce goods and services, autonomy, robustness, territorial embeddedness, and overall responsibility), which are arranged in a tree structure with 15 branches. Indicators are aggregated in a qualitative and hierarchical manner using the DEXi tool. The exploratory potential of the concept of the properties of sustainable systems encourages a transdisciplinary approach for assessing farms. IDEA4’s theoretical framework is now complemented by three information technology (IT) tools, which means that the method can be used to a much greater extent to support the agroecological transition.
