Title: Sustainability guidelines to attaining smart sustainable cities in developing countries: A Ghanaian context
Authors: Prince Antwi-Afari, De‐Graft Owusu‐Manu, Barbara Simons, Caleb Debrah, Frank Ato Ghansah
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainable Futures
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sftr.2021.100044
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3127330188

Abstract:
Urbanisation of cities are fraught with several challenges. Smart sustainable city concepts (SSCC) present means to solve these problems. Therefore, over the years, researchers have been studying frameworks to adopt in the formation of smart sustainable cities to solve urbanisation challenges. In this study, a conceptual framework for controlling urbanisation challenges to implementing SSCC in developing countries is presented. The study adopted positivism research philosophy using deductive approach. Principal component factor analysis was used to analyse 76 responses retrieved from a purposive sample. The emanating results generated four components which serves as sustainability guidelines to achieving smart sustainable cities in developing countries. The primary importance of this study lies in providing a framework to enhance the implementation of SSCC in developing countries. This study adds value to the smart sustainable city literature by highlighting strategies for improving cities’ smartness and showing key sustainability guidelines required for the attainment of a smart sustainable city in a developing country. The study also brings to light deficiencies in urbanisation in developing countries and provide paths for future research, where it was indicated that future research opportunities lie in improving enabling structures in cities and developing comprehensive measurement tools for determining and controlling urbanisation in developing countries’ cities. For the world of practice, the study offers a readily available framework that captures how urbanisation challenges could be conceptualised and solutions could be provided towards the implementation of SSCC in developing countries.
