Title: Sociological modeling of smart city with the implementation of UN sustainable development goals
Authors: Olga Kolesnichenko, Lev Mazelis, Alexander Sotnik, Dariya Yakovleva, Sergey Amelkin, Ivan Grigorevsky, Yuriy Kolesnichenko
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-020-00889-5
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3114503724

Abstract:
The COVID-19 pandemic before mass vaccination can be restrained only by the limitation of contacts between people, which makes the digital economy a key condition for survival. More than half of the world's population lives in urban areas, and many cities have already transformed into "smart" digital/virtual hubs. Digital services ensure city life safe without an economy lockout and unemployment. Urban society strives to be safe, sustainable, well-being, and healthy. We set the task to construct a hybrid sociological and technological concept of a smart city with matched solutions, complementary to each other. Our modeling with the elaborated digital architectures and with the bionic solution for ensuring sufficient data governance showed that a smart city in comparison with the traditional city is tightly interconnected inside like a social "organism". Society has entered a decisive decade during which the world will change by moving closer towards SDGs targets 2030 as well as by the transformation of cities and their digital infrastructures. It is important to recognize the large vector of sociological transformation as smart cities are just a transition phase to human-centered personal space or smart home. The "atomization" of the world urban population raises the gap problem in achieving SDGs because of different approaches to constructing digital architectures for smart cities or smart homes in countries. The strategy of creating smart cities should bring each citizen closer to SDGs at the individual level, laying in the personal space the principles of sustainable development and wellness of personality. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11625-020-00889-5.
