Title: The influence of new sustainable fisheries policies on seafood company practices and consumer awareness in Japan
Authors: Toya Hirokawa, Benjamin S. Thompson
Year: 2023
Venue: Marine Policy
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpol.2023.105819
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4386534829

Abstract:
Effective fisheries policy is critical to achieving sustainable transitions in the seafood industry. Here, we present a conceptual framework demonstrating how interactions between private sector actors, seafood consumers, and new fisheries policies can influence policy effectiveness. We then apply this framework to Japan, which recently implemented two new fisheries policies to develop sustainable fisheries: the Reformed Fisheries Policy (RFP), and a policy to reduce illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing. The former introduced an individual quota system based on total allowable catch and maximum sustainable yield. The latter altered rules around catch documentation to enhance traceability and transparency in the supply chain. Through interviews with companies involved in fishing tuna and importing mackerel, and surveys with seafood consumers, we investigate understandings of, opinions on, and responses to, these new policies. While the new policies led companies to change some of their operating and corporate sustainability practices, these were viewed unfavourably. Tuna fishing companies shared concerns around the RFP's inequitable quota allocations, believing quotas would reduce fisher incomes, company profits, and deter young people from entering the industry. Mackerel importing companies were unclear how to implement the new the Anti-IUU policy in their day-to-day operations. Meanwhile, consumer awareness on seafood sustainability was low. A lack of engagement between private sector actors, consumers, and policy makers was also evident, with greater communication and collaboration needed. Annual meetings, media campaigns, and partnerships with advocacy groups are recommended as ways to address this, to help ensure transitional change in Japanese fisheries is realised.
