Title: Exploring the synergy of ionic liquids and lipase in sustainable enzymatic engineering
Authors: Viviane de Castro Bizerra, Rafael Leandro Fernandes Melo, Francisco Simão Neto, Erico Carlos de Castro, Misael Bessa Sales, Paulo Gonçalves de Sousa, Dayana Nascimento Dari, Francisco Izaias da Silva Aires, Kaiany Moreira dos Santos, Juliana de França Serpa, Tak H. Kim, Jesús Fernández‐Lucas, Maria Cristiane Martins de Souza, José Cleiton Sousa dos Santos
Year: 2024
Venue: Journal of Molecular Liquids
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molliq.2024.124373
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392612989

Abstract:
• Advanced bibliometric analysis of ionic liquids in lipase-catalyzed reactions literature. • China, USA , Spain, France lead in IL-lipase use. • The software VOSViewer, CiteSpace, ArcMap, Excel and Google Sheets were used for analysis. • Analysis of the most used ionic liquids in recent years and their applications. • Ionic liquids and enzymes replace harmful chemicals with eco-friendly methods. Ionic liquids (ILs) are widely used in many applications. Still, their use in enzyme engineering is particularly notable due to their environmentally friendly nature and efficient replacement of conventional organic solvents. Recently, lipase has emerged as an environmentally friendly catalyst. Nevertheless, using Lipases in the presence of ILs has led to a remarkable activity enhancement, making it a sustainable and non-harmful approach. This study conducted a bibliometric review of research articles published between 2010 and 2022 concerning the use of ILs in lipase-catalyzed reactions. The analysis was based on 206 publications retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoS) database., which were analyzed using different software tools, such as VOSviewer, CiteSpace, and ArcGIS. Key findings included that over half of the publications originated from other countries, notably China (around 36.4%), the United States, Spain, and France. As a result of this bibliometric analysis, four emerging trends were identified: namely: i) lipase-catalyzed synthesis, ii) the use of deep eutectic solvent, iii) the application of ILs in secondary alcohol reactions, iv) the use of ILs as green solvents, and iv) the enzymatic ring-opening polymerization. The study also evaluated the most prominent authors, articles, and institutions that provide comprehensive data on up-to-date research on ILs and lipases. It is noted that the studies identify significant advantages in this field, showing a positive trend of promising results, especially with the development of improved and environmentally friendly processes.
