Title: Impact of Internal Combustion Engine on Energy Supplyand its Emission Reduction via Sustainable Fuel Source
Authors: Abdelgader A. S. Gheidan, Mazlan Bin Abdul Wahid, Opia Anthony Chukwunonso, Mohd Fairus Yasin
Year: 2022
Venue: Evergreen
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5109/4843114
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4307131452

Abstract:
The study intends to assess long-term mitigation strategies for reducing CO2 emissions from internal combustion. The research makes use of well-known academic literature with relevant information, covers arguments, comprehension, findings, conclusions, and suggestions from literature. Concepts of combustion, internal combustion engines (ICEs), benefits of internal combustion, CO2 emission, consequences of CO2 emission on the environment, and CO2 emission mitigating measures were taken into consideration for the evidence gathered in this study. The established, reviewed literature served as the basis, pointing petroleum as the primary source of energy for both industrial and home uses is the ICEs. However, it is also account for greenhouse gas emissions like CO2 and others, which have a direct impact on the world climate, thus strongly urges the advancement of environmental sustainability through the dissemination of fresh scientific findings that will aid in reducing CO2 and other greenhouse gases. The use of electric vehicles and biofuel applications were discussed as alternative to the fossil products. The research finding revealed that the use of internal engine a gasoline (GE) car produces 167g of CO2 gas per kilometer, a diesel vehicle (DE) emits 134g, a hybrid (HEV) emits 145g and an electric vehicle (BEV) emits 114g, according to the life cycle assessment. The use of Coconut B5, B15 fuel gives CO2 raise of 2.54 % B20%,4.64 B100%. While when of Camelina fuel lower 13.8 % of B100 than B20%, thus revealed that biofuel can increase or decrease in emission generation. However, biofuel is considered as an alternative energy source that is currently being researched and applied as fuel in motorized vehicles.
