Title: Innovation and Optimization Logic of Grassroots Digital Governance in China under Digital Empowerment and Digital Sustainability
Authors: Junjie Li, Guohui Zhan, Xin Dai, Meng Qi, Bangfan Liu
Year: 2022
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su142416470
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4311955396

Abstract:
In the digital age, digital resources are naturally sustainable, and they have become the basic technologies and platforms by which to maintain the sustainable development of the social economy. At a time when global epidemic prevention and control are becoming increasingly dynamic, digital empowerment has become a basic tool by which to promote sustainable social and economic development. In terms of digital empowerment, grassroots digital empowerment has become the most critical and urgent link to strengthen. In this study, a literature analysis using CiteSpace and NVivo software shows that the research prospects of grassroots digital governance are broad, but there is a lack of communication and cooperation between the research subjects, and a cooperative network of close and benign interaction has not been formed. There are many hot topics in the research, mainly focusing on five aspects: digitalization, grassroots governance, digital governance, digital technology, and digital countryside. The theme of these papers is changing to digital empowerment, technology empowerment, and “digital intelligence governance”. These characteristics and problems correspond to the practice of digital governance at the grassroots level in China. Therefore, in the theory and practice of Chinese grassroots digital governance, we must adhere to the problem-oriented principle and take “problem-driven” as the basic logic of grassroots digital governance. At the same time, it is necessary to consider the complexity of China’s grassroots communities and the stages of governance technology, adhere to the principles of integrated development and collaborative innovation, and take “mixed governance” as the main logic of grassroots digital governance. Generally speaking, we should realize optimization in the innovation of grassroots digital governance from three aspects, namely, strengthening the integration of grassroots digital systems, improving the ability to solve the problems of digital governance, and advancing the transformation of grassroots digital governance with incremental governance logic.
