Title: Sustainable disaster supply chain management for relief operations in Bangladesh
Authors: Zerin Tasnim, Abu Bakar Abdul Hamid, Yogesh K. Dwivedi, Mahmud Akhter Shareef
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Humanitarian Logistics and Supply Chain Management
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/jhlscm-07-2021-0062
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4206242672

Abstract:
Purpose Number of disastrous events are rising globally, and it is important to manage the humanitarian supply chain management process to assist the disaster affected individuals in terms of relief operations. Effective relief operations can help to recover the materialistic loss due to any disaster. But there is a paucity of studies regarding this issue for developing countries. This study, hence, inspected the factors that affect the disaster supply chain management (DSCM) processes for relief operations in Bangladesh. Design/methodology/approach This study examined the factors affecting relief operations through a qualitative analysis. This study used thematic analysis. Interviews were conducted with related supply chain individuals who were triangulated by data from related publications and blogs. Findings The study showed that sustainable DSCM for relief operations in Bangladesh require addressing few factors as organizational capabilities, warehousing locations and inventory management, infrastructure facility, coordination among partners, government and local authority support to create a transparent, efficient, effective and sustainable DSCM process for relief operations in Bangladesh. The system loopholes can be identified and rectified on the base of these factors. Research limitations/implications The number of interview respondents was limited to twenty who were selected randomly from four organizations. To create a sustainable disaster supply chain management (SCM) for relief operations few factors were considered as predominant factors in Bangladesh context to generalize the developing country contexts and other factors were not considered. Therefore, for farther humanitarian research, the model of this study can be used for quantitative research and the hypotheses can be tested empirically to get more acute findings. Practical implications As this study identifies the factors which can help to create a sustainable DSCM system for relief operations, hence practically, Bangladesh humanitarian SCM agencies will be beneficial from this study. They can easily recognize the factors need to be considered to create a sustainable DSCM process for relief operations. Originality/value This is a unique study carried out to examine the factors affecting DSCM process for relief operations in Bangladesh.
