Title: Green banking and sustainability – a review
Authors: Ajaz Akbar Mir, Aijaz Ahmad Bhat
Year: 2022
Venue: Arab Gulf Journal of Scientific Research
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/agjsr-04-2022-0017
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4294747950

Abstract:
Purpose The purpose of this article is to study green banking practices, its methods of adoption and importance of practicing green banking. This study also includes the role and contribution of banks in environmental sustainability and UN Sustainable Development Goals. Design/methodology/approach The current research paper is conceptual in nature, based on a thorough literature review, websites of financial institutions and literature evaluations among other sources. This study has been supplemented by a variety of research journal articles. The websites of many banks including SBI (State Bank of India) and MayBank (Malaysia) were used and reviewed to know about various green banking practices both nationally and internationally and their contribution toward sustainability. Findings The devastating effects of recent flooding, droughts and extreme temperatures that several people all over the world have experienced compelled everyone to begin thinking about global warming and its consequences, and to do everything that can be done to address this problem. Governments, businesses and individuals all play a part in preventing global warming and creating a more sustainable world. People have to deal with financial institutions, particularly banks, which play a vital role in this environment by assisting in the development of a robust and successful low-carbon economics. They should make more use of environmental data when extending credit and making investment decisions. The project will assist them in proactively improving their environmental performance while also adding long-term value to their company. Businesses having a bigger carbon output may be viewed as riskier in the future, and banks may shy away from funding such businesses in favor of innovative technology solutions that absorb or reduce carbon emissions. As a result, green banking is the order of the day, a source for sustainable development and it will undoubtedly benefit banks, industries as well as the environment at large. Research limitations/implications The theoretical implications can be summed in the following points: (1) there is no universally accepted framework for green or sustainable banking so far. However, green banking practices are at different stages of development across countries. As per the case of India, green banking practices are at a development phase in India, and green processes have a significant impact on sustainable development. (2) The study is one of the first of its kind in the academic literature as it links green banking practices with sustainability besides discussing green banking practices of the top public sector Bank of India and top commercial bank of Malaysia. Despite the significant contributions made by this study, many disadvantages should be addressed for future research. The present work was chosen for comfort, it was restricted to green banking practices of two banks only, which limits conclusion and interpretation of outcome to some extent Future research can be conducted by a comparative study with the top green banks or with the cleanest country of the world or green banking practices by those banks toward sustainability in that country can also be a good area for research Practical implications Managerial implication: The study is extremely helpful to the banking industry in determining the scope of green banking initiatives in sustainable development. This study is a prime study in India to interrelate banking industry towards sustainability and two UN SDGs besides green banking practices of banks. This paper has noted the areas where the banks can make progress for the greener, sustainable economics. It has also aided the banking industry in identifying areas for development so that it may focus on improving social satisfaction and satisfaction of stakeholders across its operating areas. The study is also very helpful for banks to comprehend how vital these green initiatives, especially green processes, are to improve sustainability. Social implications The study will serve as a gauge for banking actions toward greener nations and a greener world since these are the efforts toward Carbon Free World, Efforts for controlling global warming, efforts for the greener planet in general which undoubtedly is a significant long-term service to society a reason for better climate and better tomorrow. Originality/value This paper identifies the need for green banking in sustainability. This article also summarizes the notion of green banking besides outlining some methods and analyzing green banking initiative by SBI (State bank of India) of India, MayBank of Malaysia &amp; UNSDG .
