Title: Challenges in Sustainable Agriculture—The Role of Organic Amendments
Authors: Manuel Matišić, Ivan Dugan, Igor Bogunović
Year: 2024
Venue: Agriculture
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture14040643
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4394998011

Abstract:
Soil degradation threatens global food security and environmental sustainability, necessitating effective soil management strategies. This review comprehensively examines the impact of organic soil amendments on soil quality and productivity across various soil types and climatic conditions. A review of significant research related to organic amendments was performed using encompassed data from online search engines for studies published up until 31 December 2023. Despite their heterogeneity and use of varying methodologies, the data were narratively synthesized, providing a comprehensive understanding of amendment-induced changes in the chemical and physical properties of soil and the effectiveness of restoration on soil degradation. Organic amendments, including compost, vermicompost, biochar, and pomace, are pivotal in enhancing soil quality by increasing soil organic matter content, fostering aggregate formation, and improving soil structure in the short term. They positively influence water retention capacity, pH levels, nutrient availability, and carbon sequestration. In several studies, amendment-induced changes were absent, indicating that the effects of amendments vary depending on soil texture, application rates, and cropping systems, which emphasizes the need for tailored, sustainable soil management practices. This study concludes that organic amendments are a promising option for structure improvement and organic matter accumulation. It further suggests that an approach that integrates various methods is essential in order to meet desirable soil quality and retain agricultural productivity and offers valuable insights and recommendations for policymakers, practitioners, and researchers. Organic amendments can improve soil ecosystem services and contribute to climate change adaptation. In the future, more attention should be directed to tillage management and soil amendment interaction, as well as their effectiveness over specific periods of time.
