Title: Sustainability and Climate Protection in Radiology – An Overview
Authors: Viktoria Palm, Tobias Heye, Isabel Molwitz, Oyunbileg von Stackelberg, Hans‐Ulrich Kauczor, A. Schreyer
Year: 2023
Venue: RöFo - Fortschritte auf dem Gebiet der Röntgenstrahlen und der bildgebenden Verfahren
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1055/a-2093-4177
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4381611389

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Sustainability is becoming increasingly important in radiology. Besides climate protection - economic, ecological, and social aspects are integral elements of sustainability. An overview of the scientific background of the sustainability and environmental impact of radiology as well as possibilities for future concepts for more sustainable diagnostic and interventional radiology are presented below.The three elements of sustainability:1. EcologyWith an annually increasing number of tomographic images, Germany is in one of the leading positions worldwide in a per capita comparison. The energy consumption of an MRI system is comparable to 26 four-person households annually. CT and MRI together make a significant contribution to the overall energy consumption of a hospital. In particular, the energy consumption in the idle or inactive state is responsible for a relevant proportion.2. EconomyA critical assessment of the indications for radiological imaging is important not only because of radiation protection, but also in terms of sustainability and "value-based radiology". As part of the "Choosing Wisely" initiative, a total of 600 recommendations for avoiding unnecessary examinations were compiled from various medical societies, including specific indications in radiological diagnostics.3. Social SustainabilityThe alignment of radiology to the needs of patients and referring physicians is a core aspect of the social component of sustainability. Likewise, ensuring employee loyalty by supporting and maintaining motivation, well-being, and job satisfaction is an essential aspect of social sustainability. In addition, sustainable concepts are of relevance in teaching and research, such as the educational curriculum for residents in radiology, RADUCATION or the recommendations of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. KEY POINTS: · Sustainability comprises three pillars: economy, ecology and the social component.. · Radiologies have a high optimization potential due to a significant demand of these resources.. · A dialogue between medicine, politics and industry is necessary for a sustainable radiology.. · The discourse, knowledge transfer and public communication of recommendations are part of the sustainability network of the German Roentgen Society (DRG).. CITATION FORMAT: · Palm V, Heye T, Molwitz I et al. Sustainability and Climate Protection in Radiology - An Overview. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2023; 195: 981 - 988.
