Title: WildHealthNet: Supporting the development of sustainable wildlife health surveillance networks in Southeast Asia
Authors: Mathieu Pruvot, Emily Denstedt, Alice Latinne, Alice Porco, Diego Montecino‐Latorre, Kongsy Khammavong, Phonesavanh Milavong, Souchinda Phouangsouvanh, Manoly Sisavanh, Nguyễn Thị Thanh Nga, Pham Thi Bich Ngoc, Vo Duy Thanh, Sokha Chea, Sreyem Sours, Phouvong Phommachanh, Watthana Theppangna, Sithong Phiphakhavong, Chhuon Vanna, Kry Masphal, Sothyra Tum, San Sorn, Hong Chamnan, Thanh Long Pham, Diep Nguyen, Vũ Trọng Dược, Patrick Zimmer, Kevin Brown, Sarah H. Olson, Amanda E. Fine
Year: 2022
Venue: The Science of The Total Environment
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.160748
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4312094784

Abstract:
Wildlife and wildlife interfaces with people and livestock are essential surveillance targets to monitor emergent or endemic pathogens or new threats affecting wildlife, livestock, and human health. However, limitations of previous investments in scope and duration have resulted in a neglect of wildlife health surveillance (WHS) systems at national and global scales, particularly in lower and middle income countries (LMICs). Building on decades of wildlife health activities in LMICs, we demonstrate the implementation of a locally-driven multi-pronged One Health approach to establishing WHS in Cambodia, Lao PDR and Viet Nam under the WildHealthNet initiative. WildHealthNet utilizes existing local capacity in the animal, public health, and environmental sectors for event based or targeted surveillance and disease detection. To scale up surveillance systems to the national level, WildHealthNet relies on iterative field implementation and policy development, capacity bridging, improving data collection and management systems, and implementing context specific responses to wildlife health intelligence. National WHS systems piloted in Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Viet Nam engaged protected area rangers, wildlife rescue centers, community members, and livestock and human health sector staff and laboratories. Surveillance activities detected outbreaks of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza in wild birds, African swine fever in wild boar (Sus scrofa), Lumpy skin disease in banteng (Bos javanicus), and other endemic zoonotic pathogens identified as surveillance priorities by local stakeholders. In Cambodia and Lao PDR, national plans for wildlife disease surveillance are being signed into legislation. Cross-sectoral and trans-disciplinary approaches are needed to implement effective WHS systems. Long-term commitment, and paralleled implementation and policy development are key to sustainable WHS networks. WildHealthNet offers a roadmap to aid in the development of locally-relevant and locally-led WHS systems that support the global objectives of the World Organization for Animal Health's Wildlife Health Framework and other international agendas.
