Title: Improvement of Plant Responses by Nanobiofertilizer: A Step towards Sustainable Agriculture
Authors: Nosheen Akhtar, Noshin Ilyas, Tehseen Ahmad Meraj, Alireza Pour‐Aboughadareh, R. Z. Sayyed, Zia‐ur‐Rehman Mashwani, Péter Poczai
Year: 2022
Venue: Nanomaterials
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/nano12060965
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4221083503

Abstract:
Drastic changes in the climate and ecosystem due to natural or anthropogenic activities have severely affected crop production globally. This concern has raised the need to develop environmentally friendly and cost-effective strategies, particularly for keeping pace with the demands of the growing population. The use of nanobiofertilizers in agriculture opens a new chapter in the sustainable production of crops. The application of nanoparticles improves the growth and stress tolerance in plants. Inoculation of biofertilizers is another strategy explored in agriculture. The combination of nanoparticles and biofertilizers produces nanobiofertilizers, which are cost-effective and more potent and eco-friendly than nanoparticles or biofertilizers alone. Nanobiofertilizers consist of biofertilizers encapsulated in nanoparticles. Biofertilizers are the preparations of plant-based carriers having beneficial microbial cells, while nanoparticles are microscopic (1-100 nm) particles that possess numerous advantages. Silicon, zinc, copper, iron, and silver are the commonly used nanoparticles for the formulation of nanobiofertilizer. The green synthesis of these nanoparticles enhances their performance and characteristics. The use of nanobiofertilizers is more effective than other traditional strategies. They also perform their role better than the common salts previously used in agriculture to enhance the production of crops. Nanobiofertilizer gives better and more long-lasting results as compared to traditional chemical fertilizers. It improves the structure and function of soil and the morphological, physiological, biochemical, and yield attributes of plants. The formation and application of nanobiofertilizer is a practical step toward smart fertilizer that enhances growth and augments the yield of crops. The literature on the formulation and application of nanobiofertilizer at the field level is scarce. This product requires attention, as it can reduce the use of chemical fertilizer and make the soil and crops healthy. This review highlights the formulation and application of nanobiofertilizer on various plant species and explains how nanobiofertilizer improves the growth and development of plants. It covers the role and status of nanobiofertilizer in agriculture. The limitations of and future strategies for formulating effective nanobiofertilizer are mentioned.
