Title: Indices for measurement of sustainable diets: A scoping review
Authors: Rosa Sá de Oliveira Neta, Severina Carla Vieira Cunha Lima, Lorena Lima do Nascimento, Camila Valdejane Silva de Souza, Clélia de Oliveira Lyra, Dirce Maria Lobo Marchioni, Ângelo Giuseppe Roncalli
Year: 2023
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0296026
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4390037972

Abstract:
INTRODUCTION: The current food system is associated with negative impacts on health, food insecurity and environmental harm. Sustainable diets have attracted increasing interest and novel proposals with a global scope have emerged. This scoping review aims to give an overview of the analysis of all the available evidence related to the sustainable diet indices that have been developed based on the EAT-Lancet Commission. METHODS: Searches were conducted in the PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Scopus and Science Direct databases. This review was conducted following the PRISMA-ScR guidelines. The target population were studies addressed the use of an index or metric for assessing sustainable diets based on the EAT-Lancet Commission Summary Report were included. PCC acronym was used in the design of the study to describe eligibility criteria: P (Population)-Indexes; C (Concept)-Sustainable diets; C (Context)-Knowledge on the structure and applicability of measurement indices of sustainable diets based on EAT-Lancet recommendations available in the literature. Study eligibility criteria were restricted to papers published in English, from January 2019 through October 2022, with no population restriction. RESULTS: A total of 1,458 papers were retrieved, 14 of which were included in the review. Seven measures of sustainable diets were identified as follow: EAT-Lancet diet score (ELD-I), New EAT-Lancet diet score (EAT), Planetary Health Diet Index (PHDI), Sustainable Diet Index (SDI), Sustainable-HEalthy-Diet (SHED), novel Nutrient-Based EAT index (NB-EAT) and World Index for Sustainability and Health (WISH). Most studies were conducted in developed countries, where greater adherence to this type of diet was found. Estimated greenhouse gas emissions was the most reported indicator of sustainability, followed by diet quality and the benefits of sustainable diets with regards to health outcomes. DISCUSSION: We identified barriers that hinder progress towards sustainable diets, including the difficulty of comparing different indices and the tendency to neglect social aspects and the lack of common definitions and metrics. Despite being challenge, we highlight the importance of using indices that assess sustainable diets that harmonize various indicators, as recommended by the EAT-Lancet Commission, in order to promote positive changes towards a more sustainable future.
