Title: Towards a sustainable rural electrification scheme in South Africa: Analysis of the Status quo
Authors: Edson L. Meyer, Ochuko K. Overen
Year: 2021
Venue: Energy Reports
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2021.07.007
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W3184355467

Abstract:
In South Africa, more than 3.5 million households live without access to modern energy. The Government acknowledged the impossibility of universal grid electrification in the desire time frame (2025–2030). This study reviews the struggling rural off-grid initiative in South Africa to unpack effective, sustainable rural electrification approaches. It is based on a thorough evaluation of fellow African successful off-grid initiatives and the country’s energy transition that gave rise to its exiting energy landscape. It was revealed that the conventional electrification rate of 5 to 10% annual is not sufficient for the country to accomplish universal grid access by 2030. It requires a minimum of 20% electrification rate per annum at an enormous budget increase of over 200%, amounting to an excess of USD 500 million to achieve universal grid access by 2025. The following recommendations were proposed to address the existing unsustainable rural electrification practice in the country. A new energy policy that mandates the supply of 50 kWh/month electricity through renewable energy source is required. The policy should clearly stipulate incentives for local and provincial municipalities partaking in renewable energy initiatives after independently verified demand reduction. Furthermore, the new policy should also allow for innovative entrepreneurs and programmes to collaborate with said municipalities to achieve its mandate. Provision of learnerships in the Higher Education sector to support the envisaged increased need for technical expertise on renewable energy systems, optimisation, and smart metring should be enforced in the new policy. Lastly, a concerted approach to educating existing and potential consumers on the benefits of being unaffected by load shedding and control of their own demand management should be embarked on in a national drive.
