Title: Land-Use Mix and Urban Sustainability: Benefits and Indicators Analysis
Authors: Alessia Iannillo, Isidoro Fasolino
Year: 2021
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su132313460
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4200542583

Abstract:
Sustainable development is one of the biggest challenges for the future of our cities. With this in mind, eco-districts are essentially designed to respond to four challenges that place emphasis mainly on complexity and resilience by acting on aspects such as urban green spaces, mobility, energy, water management and waste management. In this study, the focus is on the concept of mixitè, from both a functional and social perspective, which is seen as a tool to increase the sustainability of urban settlements and bring benefits to the social, environmental and economic system. Despite the growing interest of research into the impacts of an urban land-use mix, there have been few methodological analyses on how to measure the functional mix in an urban environment. Therefore, the goal of this study is to define one or more indicators that are able to represent the diversity of the soil through their application to different areas. It is therefore possible to define a tool that helps to design, evaluate and support decision makers in urban planning choices. Indeed, it is important to understand how the soil mix, and subsequently the social mix, affects sustainability and how planners can take it into account in planning and developing urban policies. In this document: (a) we will highlight the theories and concepts underlying both functional and social mixitè; (b) the benefits it brings both to the city and to the individual; (c) a review of the main methods of measurement of the mixitè; (d) application and a subsequent comparison of the methods identified in case studies represented by three areas related to the establishment of the University of Salerno, in Italy, consisting of its two campuses as well as an adjacent site. The results obtained show that some of the indicators analyzed are more effective at representing the phenomenon of mixitè than others. Therefore, widening research, especially for those concerning the social mixitè, is advisable. Despite this, the results show that proper planning and management of urban devices bring about a series of advantages by increasing the sustainability and urban efficiency of settlements.
