Title: Application of Shannon Entropy and COCOSO techniques to analyze performance of sustainable development goals: The case of the Indian Union Territories
Authors: Pankaj Prasad Dwivedi, Dilip Kumar Sharma
Year: 2022
Venue: Results in Engineering
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2022.100416
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4224264996

Abstract:
The variety of local conditions across areas has created a plethora of problems and possibilities for the development of international sustainability frameworks including the SDGs. A popular revolutionary change was taken by local cities, communities, and enterprises that might offer a potential strategy for attaining sustainability, suited to each context's particular requirement. As a United Nations member, India has endorsed the Sustainable Development Goals, which serve as an outline for long-term development. The Indian government approved the “Agenda 2030,” which includes 17 SDGs goals with a set of indicators and targets. The indicators have been used to define the status of the present state with the fulfillment of the targets. Our main contribution to this study is that we have examined the current status of key targets for Indian Union Territories using SDG India Index 3.0 and the proposed technology as well as based on demonstration assessed the union territories with their achieving rank. We use Shannon Entropy and COCOSO technique in the MCDM model for evaluating the target. In our study, the final results show that Chandigarh has best implemented the Sustainable goal objectives for achieving the finest outcomes in comparison to other states, while Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu achieve the last rank. The key explanation for these types of results might be that the Union Territories at the bottom of the list have yet to adequately implement the SDGs. Finally, it is concluded that the outcomes are completely unbiased and acceptable and that the model utilized is suitable for carrying out this type of study.
