Title: Effect of fiber stacking sequence and orientation on quasi- static indentation properties of sustainable hybrid carbon/ramie fiber epoxy composites
Authors: Shukur Abu Hassan, Joseph Selvi Binoj, Kheng Lim Goh, Bright Brailson Mansingh, K. C. Varaprasad, Mohd Yazid Yahya, Faten Ermala Che Othman, Usaid Ahmed, Didik Nurhadiyanto, Mujiyono Mujiyono, Asri Peni Wulandari
Year: 2022
Venue: Current Research in Green and Sustainable Chemistry
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crgsc.2022.100284
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4207070432

Abstract:
Hybrid polymer composites reinforced with synthetic and natural fibers are gaining more interest in current composite technology in an effort to promote sustainability without sacrificing the performance of synthetic fiber reinforced polymer composites. The goal of this study is to see how the fiber stacking sequence of carbon and ramie fiber, as well as the orientation of ramie fiber, affects the quasi-static indentation behaviour of carbon/ramie fiber reinforced epoxy hybrid composites. The hybrid composite specimens were made using a hand layup approach followed by a hot pressing process. The quasi-static indentation properties of carbon/ramie fiber reinforcements in epoxy matrix were investigated using a hemispherical indenter at varying indenter displacement rates of 10, 20, and 30 ​mm/min for the stated stacking sequence and orientation. The indentation resistance qualities of carbon/ramie fiber reinforced epoxy hybrid composites were evaluated in terms of indentation force, hybrid composite specimen energy absorption capability, and hybrid composite specimen damage caused by hemispherical indenter penetration. The results reveal that a carbon/ramie fiber reinforced epoxy hybrid composite with 5 ramie fiber layers has better energy absorption capabilities, absorbing 114.926 ​J at a 20 ​mm/min indentation rate. Similarly, the indentation force in hybrid composites increases as the number of carbon/ramie fiber layers increases. These results indicate that carbon/ramie fiber reinforced epoxy hybrid composites have a great potential towards low velocity impact applications.
