Title: Sustainability in the Airports Ecosystem: A Literature Review
Authors: Ricardo Raimundo, Maria Emília Baltazar, Sandra Cruz
Year: 2023
Venue: Sustainability
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/su151612325
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4385812085

Abstract:
The global challenges of sustainability are transforming the economy of the 21st Century. Economic, social, and environmental sustainability impacts regulators and businesses, particularly in the aviation industry, and facilitates access to productive services and market linkages. Airport stakeholders are increasingly pressuring companies to consider their socioeconomic impacts and manage them sustainably and resiliently. Business is paramount to airport companies in this competitive and economically sensitive climate. Many studies have addressed the issue of airport sustainability from specific perspectives. These perspectives include economic sustainability, benefits related to economic and environmental sustainability, and the impact of operations on the airport environment. This report summarises the current state of airport environmental sustainability practices, including greenhouse gas emissions from airport pavements, energy management strategies for airport buildings and operations, water conservation, and waste management. We aim to provide a clear and integrative picture of these impacts on airport sustainability through a systematic literature review while advancing knowledge A systematic literature review was performed using the PRISMA guidelines (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) methodology. This systematic literature review sought to consolidate knowledge on the subject. In order to illustrate the link between major categories and their corresponding trends, authors used VOSviewer scientific software. The compilation of existing knowledge on the three components of sustainability likely underscores the importance of overall airport sustainability. It is suggested that further studies be conducted.
