Title: The Impact of Pesticide Residues on Soil Health for Sustainable Vegetable Production in Arid Areas
Authors: Turki Kh. Faraj, Mohamed H. EL-Saeid, Mohamed Najim, Maha Chieb
Year: 2024
Venue: Separations
DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/separations11020046
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4391384064

Abstract:
The assessment of pesticide residues in agricultural soils is an essential prerogative in maintaining environmental health standards. Intensive vegetable cultivation is practiced in the Al-Kharj area of the eastern Najd region of Saudi Arabia, where excessive applications of agrochemicals are reported to pollute vegetable-growing soils, challenging the sustainable management of soils and groundwater resources. This study aimed to monitor the levels of thirty-two types of pesticide residues in the soils of vegetable fields and the estimated potential health risk for humans due to non-dietary exposure to pesticides in soils in the Al-Kharj region. Pesticide residues were evaluated at 0–10 cm and 10–20 cm depths at 20 sampling sites from Al-Kharj. Gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry, coupled with a quadrupole mass spectrometer with a GC column, was used in the analysis. The results indicated that agrochemical residues show prolonged soil pollution that may cause adverse impacts on human and environment. Herbicides Atrazine, Isoproturpon, and Linuron have been detected in the soils, and these pose many problematic environmental threats. Bromoxynil, Pendimetholin, and Diclofop-methyl could be used as per the recommendations to sustainably manage soil and water resources in the Al-Kharj area. Resmethrin, Methidathion, Ethoprophos, Tetramethrin, Bromophis-methyl, Bifenthion, Permethrin, Fenoxycarb, Cyfluthrin, Phosmet, and Azinophos-methyl can be used safely in the Al-Kharj agricultural area, maintaining sustainable soils and water resources. Applications of Carbaryl require sufficient care, while Endosulfan, Deltamethrin, Lindane, Chlorpyrifos, Chlorpyrifos-methly, Dimethoate, Heptachlor, and Mevinphos, which are detected in soils, require policy guidelines to limit the use to ensure sustainability. Policy interventions need to be formulated to increase the sustainability of soil management and groundwater resources in the Al-Kharj region to ensure the safety of people who are in direct contact with the agrochemicals used and to ensure the safety of agricultural products generated in this region.
