Title: Sustainable Management Practices: Green Marketing as A Source for Organizational Competitive Advantage
Authors: Lucas Alves de Oliveira Lima, Ansselmo Ferreira dos Santos, Maria Muniz Nunes, Iara Batista da Silva, Valdeli Maria Medeiros da Silva Gomes, Murilo de Oliveira Busto, Marcos Antônio Maia de Oliveira, Belmiro do Nascimento João
Year: 2024
Venue: Revista de Gestão Social e Ambiental
DOI: https://doi.org/10.24857/rgsa.v18n4-087
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4392716256

Abstract:
Objective: The objective of this research was to analyze the contributions of green marketing as a source of competitive advantage for organizations. Methodology: The research adopted the systematic review methodology, following the PRISMA guidelines, to analyze articles on sustainable management practices, green marketing and competitive advantage. Search platforms such as Google Acadêmico and Scielo were used, with inclusion criteria for scientific articles in Portuguese published between 2018 and 2023. Exclusion criteria were applied to discard non-pertinent works, resulting in the selection of 7 articles. Results and data analysis: As a result, it was possible to see that the systematic review highlighted green marketing as a source of competitive advantage for organizations, by integrating environmental concerns into market strategies. This enables differentiation, operational efficiency, and more sustainable production processes. In addition, the adoption of sustainable practices attracts consumers engaged with sustainability, increasing the profitability of production models. Certifications such as ISO 14001 demonstrate a commitment to sustainability, giving competitive advantage. Thus, green marketing favors the company's image and, at the same time, engages consumers in sustainable practices, contributing to the positioning of the organization in the market as a socio-environmentally responsible company. Conclusion: It is concluded, therefore, that green marketing not only improves the competitiveness of companies, but also fosters a culture of sustainability and preservation of natural resources, representing a significant contribution to organization, society and the environment.
