Title: Partner selection strategies of SMEs for reaching the Sustainable Development Goals
Authors: Paola Castellani, Chiara Rossato, Elena Giaretta, Alfonso Vargas Sánchez
Year: 2023
Venue: Review of Managerial Science
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-023-00656-7
Paper ID: https://openalex.org/W4382140875

Abstract:
Abstract The paper aims to investigate the characteristics of SMEs’ partners that can better contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. Given the explorative nature of this research, a qualitative methodology is adopted, with a longitudinal case study employed as the research method. The Wråd case study confirmed that SMEs can contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by developing partnerships with multiple stakeholders. In addition, this research revealed that the characteristics of the SMEs’ partners can be referred to the four following dimensions: economic, environmental, social and purpose. Furthermore, it proposed that quality utility value, technique level, profitability are the subdimensions of the economic dimension and that resource consumption efficiency, pollution production, energy efficiency, environment management system and environment equipment and facilities are the subdimensions of the environmental dimension. This research expressed also that public health, employee engagement, brand reputation and local communities’ influence are the subdimensions of the social dimension. Finally, it underlined that sustainability-oriented awareness development, sustainable orientation, sustainable collective culture, proactive managerial skills, organisational learning and proactive and innovative leadership are the subdimensions of the purpose dimension. In line with previous studies underlining the importance of increasing the TBL dimensions, this study suggests a further extension of this theory with the ‘purpose’ dimension. This study highlights the importance of developing a vision supported by a social awareness of the problems that need to be addressed and that transcend the fashion sector. Further researches could explore a larger sample of SMEs operating in different businesses and the point of view of the SME’s partners.
