Title: Physical literacy and the participant perspective: Exploring the value of physical literacy according to individuals experiencing disability through composite narratives
Authors: Kyle Pushkarenko, Mikaeli Cavell, Nicholas Gosse, Emilie Michalovic
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Exercise Science and Fitness
DOI: 10.1016/j.jesf.2023.03.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149359

Abstract:
Background Physical literacy (PL) is essential to the holistic human experience, emphasizing embodied capability and affording opportunities for inclusive engagement. Despite its recent use as a core programming element, PL from the experiential point of view of individuals experiencing disability has yet to be explored. Excluding these perspectives promotes a culture of ableism, one that devalues the embodied capabilities of those experiencing the world differently. The purpose of this study was to highlight the participant perspective related to PL and explore the value individuals experiencing disability attribute to PL and its development. Methods Using the communities of practice theoretical model of knowledge as a conceptual framework, 13 participants experiencing disability participated in two focus groups. Participants’ experiences were thematized via the use of thematic analysis, and voices were portrayed through composite narratives, highlighting the shared participant experience and value associated with PL. Results Three themes emerged: (1) imagine the possibilities , (2) dance like nobody's watching , and (3) no wrong way to move . Composite narratives reflect PL as a valued means of exploration and learning, personal growth, and opportunity related to physical activity and social interaction. Participant value was considered to be enhanced via a learning climate affording opportunities for developing autonomy and a sense of belonging. Conclusion This research provides an authentic understanding of PL within the context of disability, and what might be used to facilitate its development in such an environment. Individuals experiencing disability contributed to this knowledge and must be continually involved to ensure PL development is inclusive to all.
