Title: Pentoxifylline Effects on Hospitalized COVID-19 Patients with Cytokine Storm Syndrome: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Authors: Rania M. Sarhan, Ahmed E. Altyar, Ahmed Essam Abou Warda, Yasmine Mohamed Saied, Haytham Soliman Ghareeb Ibrahim, Mona F. Schaalan, Shaimaa Fathy, Neven Sarhan, Marian S. Boshra
Year: 2023
Venue: Pharmaceuticals
DOI: 10.3390/ph16040631
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142327

Abstract:
COVID-19 is a fatal, fast-spreading pandemic, and numerous attempts are being made around the world to understand and manage the disease. COVID-19 patients may develop a cytokine-release syndrome, which causes serious respiratory diseases and, in many cases, death. The study examined the feasibility of employing legally available anti-inflammatory pentoxifylline (PTX), a low toxicity and cost medication, to mitigate the hyper-inflammation caused by COVID-19. Thirty adult patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV2 were hospitalized owing to the cytokine storm syndrome. They were given 400 mg of pentoxifylline orally TID according to the standard COVID-19 protocol of the Egyptian Ministry of Health. Besides this, a group of thirty-eight hospitalized COVID-19 patients who received the standard COVID-19 protocol was included in the study as a control group. The outcomes included laboratory test parameters, clinical improvements, and number of deaths in both groups. After receiving PTX, all patients showed a significant improvement in C reactive protein (CRP), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels at p < 0.01 and p = 0.004, respectively, while there was an increase in total leukocyte count (TLC) and neutrophil-to-leucocyte ratio (NLR) at p < 0.01 compared to their baseline levels. The D-dimer level showed a significant increase in the treatment group at p < 0.01, while showing no statistically significant difference in the control group. The median initial ALT (42 U/L) in the treatment group showed a decrease compared to the control group (51 U/L). No statistical significance was reported regarding clinical improvement, length of stay, and death percentages between the two groups. Our results showed no significant improvement of PTX over controls in clinical outcomes of hospitalized COVID-19 patients. Nevertheless, PTX displayed a positive effect on certain inflammatory biomarkers.
