Title: Echinochrome A Prevents Diabetic Nephropathy by Inhibiting the PKC-Iota Pathway and Enhancing Renal Mitochondrial Function in db/db Mice
Authors: Trong Kha Pham, To Hoai T. Nguyen, Hyeong Rok Yun, Elena A. Vasileva, Natalia P. Mishchenko, Sergey A. Fedoreyev, Valentin A. Stonik, Thu Thi Vu, Huy Quang Nguyen, Sung Woo Cho, Hyoung Kyu Kim, Jin Han
Year: 2023
Venue: Marine Drugs
DOI: 10.3390/md21040222
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142928

Abstract:
Echinochrome A (EchA) is a natural bioproduct extracted from sea urchins, and is an active component of the clinical drug, Histochrome ® . EchA has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial effects. However, its effects on diabetic nephropathy (DN) remain poorly understood. In the present study, seven-week-old diabetic and obese db/db mice were injected with Histochrome (0.3 mL/kg/day; EchA equivalent of 3 mg/kg/day) intraperitoneally for 12 weeks, while db/db control mice and wild-type (WT) mice received an equal amount of sterile 0.9% saline. EchA improved glucose tolerance and reduced blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine levels but did not affect body weight. In addition, EchA decreased renal malondialdehyde (MDA) and lipid hydroperoxide levels, and increased ATP production. Histologically, EchA treatment ameliorated renal fibrosis. Mechanistically, EchA suppressed oxidative stress and fibrosis by inhibiting protein kinase C-iota (PKCι)/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), downregulating p53 and c-Jun phosphorylation, attenuating NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGFβ1) signaling. Moreover, EchA enhanced AMPK phosphorylation and nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) signaling, improving mitochondrial function and antioxidant activity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that EchA prevents DN by inhibiting PKCι/p38 MAPK and upregulating the AMPKα/NRF2/HO-1 signaling pathways in db/db mice, and may provide a therapeutic option for DN.
