Title: Maneuver protocol for outpatient telemetric intracranial pressure monitoring in hydrocephalus patients
Authors: Valentina Pennacchietti, Andreas Schaumann, Ulrich-Wilhelm Thomale
Year: 2022
Venue: Child's Nervous System
DOI: 10.1007/s00381-022-05659-5
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968677

Abstract:
Introduction Telemetric intracranial pressure measurement (tICPM) offers new opportunities to acquire objective information in shunted and non-shunted patients. The sensor reservoir (SR) provides tICPM modality at a decent sampling rate as an integrated component of the CSF shunt system. The aim of this study is to perform tICPM during a defined protocol of maneuvers in an outpatient setting as feasibility study including either shunt-dependent patients or candidates for possible shunt therapy. Methods A total of 17 patients received a SR and were investigated within a protocol of maneuver measurements involving different body postures (90°, 10°, 0°, and − 10°), breathing patterns (hypo- and hyperventilation), and mild venous congestion (Valsalva, Jugular vein compression), while the latter two were performed in lying postures (10° and 0°). The cohort included 11 shunted and 6 non-shunted (stand-alone-SR) patients. All measurements were evaluated using an ICP-analysis software (ICPicture, Miethke, Germany) looking at ICP changes and amplitude (AMP) characteristics. Results The shunted patient group consisted of 11 patients (median age: 15.8 years; range: 4–35.2 years) with either a primary shunt (n=9) and 2 patients received a shunt after stand-alone-SR tICPM. Six patients were enrolled with a stand-alone SR (median age 11.9 years, range 3.6–17.7 years). In the stand-alone SR group, maneuver related ICP and AMP changes were more sensitive compared to shunted patients. Postural maneuvers caused significant ICP changes in all body positions in both groups. The highest ICP values were seen during Valsalva maneuver, provoked by the patients themselves. In the stand-alone group, significant higher ICP values during hyperventilation were observed compared to shunted individuals. In shunted patients, a significant correlation between ICP and AMP was observed only during hyperventilation maneuver, while this correlation was additionally seen in Valsalva and jugular vein compression in stand-alone patients. Conclusion SR-related tICPM is helpful to objectify diagnostic evaluation in patients with CSF dynamic disturbances. The defined protocol did result in a wide range of ICP changes with promising potential for effective outpatient tICPM investigation. Since the correlation of ICP and AMP was observed during mild venous congestion maneuvers it appears to be specifically helpful for the evaluation of intracranial compliance. Further investigations of maneuver-related tICPM in a larger population, including variable pathologies, are needed to further establish the protocol in the clinical practice.
