Title: Discovery of cyanophycin dipeptide hydrolase enzymes suggests widespread utility of the natural biopolymer cyanophycin
Authors: Itai Sharon, Geoffrey A. McKay, Dao Nguyen, T. Martin Schmeing
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216547120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974463

Abstract:
Significance Cyanophycin is best known for its roles in cyanobacteria, which have developed dedicated pathways around the biopolymer. We have shown that a novel, common, dedicated cyanophycin dipeptide hydrolase family is found in bacteria which possess other cyanophycin metabolizing genes, as well as in those that lack them. The specificity of cyanophycin dipeptide hydrolases is derived from conserved interactions of the active site with both residues of its β-Asp-Arg dipeptide substrate. This specificity is maintained in cyanophycin dipeptide hydrolase enzymes from both cyanophycin producers and scavengers with medical relevance. The prevalence of cyanophycin metabolism genes and the discovery of this dedicated enzyme family highlight the utility of this interesting natural biopolymer. Cyanophycin is a bacterial polymer mainly used for nitrogen storage. It is composed of a peptide backbone of L-aspartate residues with L-arginines attached to their side chains through isopeptide bonds. Cyanophycin is degraded in two steps: Cyanophycinase cleaves the polymer into β-Asp-Arg dipeptides, which are hydrolyzed into free Asp and Arg by enzymes possessing isoaspartyl dipeptide hydrolase activity. Two unrelated enzymes with this activity, isoaspartyl dipeptidase (IadA) and isoaspartyl aminopeptidase (IaaA) have been shown to degrade β-Asp-Arg dipeptides, but bacteria which encode cyanophycin-metabolizing genes can lack iaaA and iadA genes. In this study, we investigate a previously uncharacterized enzyme whose gene can cluster with cyanophycin-metabolizing genes. This enzyme, which we name cyanophycin dipeptide hydrolase (CphZ), is specific for dipeptides derived from cyanophycin degradation. Accordingly, a co-complex structure of CphZ and β-Asp-Arg shows that CphZ, unlike IadA or IaaA, recognizes all portions of its β-Asp-Arg substrate. Bioinformatic analyses showed that CphZ is found in very many proteobacteria and is homologous to an uncharacterized protein encoded in the “arginine/ornithine transport” (aot) operon of many pseudomonas species, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa . In vitro assays show that AotO is indeed a CphZ, and in cellulo growth experiments show that this enzyme and the aot operon allow P. aeruginosa to take up and use β-Asp-Arg as a sole carbon and nitrogen source. Together the results establish the novel, highly specific enzyme subfamily of CphZs, suggesting that cyanophycin is potentially used by a much wider range of bacteria than previously appreciated.
