Title: Baicalin ameliorates Mycoplasma gallisepticum-induced inflammatory injury via inhibiting STIM1-regulated ceramide accumulation in DF-1 cells
Authors: Xueping Chen, Muhammad Ishfaq, Jian Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Poultry Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2023.102687
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149409

Abstract:
Mycoplasma gallisepticum ( MG ) is dependent on its host for many nutrients due to the loss of many important metabolic pathways. Ceramide is a sphingolipid that regulates multiple cellular processes in eukaryotic cell. Several studies highlighted the crucial role of ceramide on the pathogenesis of various pathogens. This study aimed to determine whether ceramide plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of MG. Based on an MG infection model in DF-1 cells, the results revealed that MG infection induced ceramide accumulation in DF-1 cells. Inhibiting the de novo synthesis of ceramide significantly inhibited MG proliferation and inflammatory injury caused by MG in DF-1 cells. Meanwhile, MG infection led to endoplasmic reticulum stress, and pharmacologic inhibition of endoplasmic reticulum stress prevented ceramide accumulation and MG proliferation in DF-1 cells, alleviating the inflammatory injury caused by MG. In addition, MG infection significantly promoted expression level of stromal interaction molecule 1 ( STIM1 ), thus induced calcium overload and oxidative stress. Furthermore, inhibition of STIM1 expression partially restored calcium homeostasis and mitigated oxidative stress, thus alleviated endoplasmic reticulum stress. Importantly, the inflammatory injury caused by MG were partially ameliorated by baicalin treatment (20 µg/mL) through downregulating STIM1 expression. In summary, these results suggests that ceramide accumulation through the de novo pathway plays an important role to promote MG proliferation and baicalin can alleviate MG infection induced inflammatory injury via regulating STIM1-related oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress and ceramide accumulation in DF-1 cells.
