Title: Lower Limb Arterial Ischemia: An Independent Risk Factor of Sudomotor Dysfunction in Type 2 Diabetes
Authors: Yuhuan Lv, Zheng Yang, Linyu Xiang, Meng Yu, Subei Zhao, Xiaoru Zhang, Rong Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity
DOI: 10.2147/DMSO.S402797
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066695

Abstract:
Background As an early manifestation of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), sudomotor dysfunction significantly increases the risk of diabetic foot ulcer. The pathogenesis of sudomotor dysfunction is still unclear. Lower limb ischemia may be related to sudomotor dysfunction, but few studies have explored it. The purpose of this study is to explore the relationship between sudomotor function and comprehensive lower limb arterial ischemia including large arteries, small arteries and microvascular in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Patients and Methods 511 T2DM patients were enrolled in this cross-sectional study. Sudomotor function was assessed qualitatively and quantitatively by Neuropad. Lower limb arterial ischemia was defined as any abnormality of the ankle brachial index (ABI), toe brachial index (TBI) or transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2). Results In this study, 75.1% of patients had sudomotor dysfunction. Compared with normal sudomotor function, patients with sudomotor dysfunction had a higher incidence of lower limb arterial ischemia (51.2% vs 36.2%, p = 0.004). Similarly, compared with the non-arterial ischemia group, the proportion of sudomotor disorders was higher in the arterial ischemia group ( p = 0.004). Low TBI and low TcPO2 groups also had a higher proportion of sudomotor disorders (all p < 0.05).Compare with normal groups, low ABI, low TBI, and low TcPO2 groups had lower Slop4 which quantitatively reflecting Neuropad discoloration. Arterial ischemia was an independent risk factor for sudomotor dysfunction [OR = 1.754, p = 0.024]. Low TcPO2 also independently increased the risk of sudomotor disorders [OR = 2.231, p = 0.026]. Conclusion Lower limb arterial ischemia is an independent risk factor of sudomotor dysfunction. Especially below the ankle (BTA) small arteries and microvascular ischemia may also be involved in the occurrence of sudomotor disorders.
