Title: Outcome Analysis of En bloc Resection and Reconstruction by Non-vascularized Proximal Fibular Autograft in Giant Cell Tumor of Distal Radius supplemented with Brachytherapy
Authors: Anshul Dahuja, Manraj Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Sagar Arora, Rashmeet Kaur, Haramritpal Kaur
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Orthopaedic Case Reports
DOI: 10.13107/jocr.2022.v12.i11.3418
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066663

Abstract:
Introduction: Giant cell tumors of the bone are aggressive and potentially malignant lesions. Juxtaarticular giant cell tumors of the lower end radius are common and is a challenge for reconstruction after tumor excision. Several reconstructive procedures like vascularized and non-vascularized fibular graft, osteoarticular allograft, ceramic prosthesis, and megapros thesis are in use for substitution of the defect in the distal radius following resection. Here, we have analyzed the results of aggressive benign Giant cell tumor of the distal radius treated by en bloc excision and reconstruction using autogenous non-vascularized fibular graft along with brachytherapy. Material and Methods: Eleven patients with either Campanacci Grade II or III histologically proven giant cell tumors of lower end radius were treated with en bloc excision and reconstruction with ipsilateral non-vascularized proximal fibular autograft. Host graft junction was fixed with low contact dynamic compression plate (LC-DCP) in all cases. Fixation of the head of the fibula with carpal bones and distal end of the ulna, if not resected, using K-wires at graft host junction was done. Brachytherapy was given in all 11 cases. Routine radiographs and clinical assessments regarding pain, instability, recurrence, hand grip strength, and functional status were done using Mayo modified wrist score at regular intervals. Result: The follow-up ranged from 12 to 15 months. At last follow-up, the average combined range of motion was 76.1%. The average union time was 19 weeks. Out of 11 patients, two patients had good results, five patients had fair results, and four patient had poor results. There was no case of graft fracture, metastasis, death, local recurrence, or significant donor site morbidity. Conclusion: En bloc resection of giant cell tumors of the lower end radius is a widely accepted method. Reconstruction with non-vascularized fibular graft and internal fixation with LC-DCP along with brachytherapy minimizes the problem and gives satisfactory functional results with no recurrence.
