Title: Ythdf2 promotes pulmonary hypertension by suppressing Hmox1-dependent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant function in alveolar macrophages
Authors: Li Hu, Yanfang Yu, Yueyao Shen, Huijie Huang, Donghai Lin, Kang Wang, Youjia Yu, Kai Li, Yue Cao, Qiang Wang, Xiaoxuan Sun, Zhibing Qiu, Dong Wei, Bin Shen, Jingyu Chen, David Fulton, Yong Ji, Jie Wang, Feng Chen
Year: 2023
Venue: Redox Biology
DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2023.102638
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975317

Abstract:
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a devastating disease characterized by irreversible pulmonary vascular remodeling (PVR) that causes right ventricular failure and death. The early alternative activation of macrophages is a critical event in the development of PVR and PH, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Previously we have shown that N 6 -methyladenosine (m 6 A) modifications of RNA contribute to phenotypic switching of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells and PH. In the current study, we identify Ythdf2 , an m 6 A reader, as an important regulator of pulmonary inflammation and redox regulation in PH. In a mouse model of PH, the protein expression of Ythdf2 was increased in alveolar macrophages (AMs) during the early stages of hypoxia. Mice with a myeloid specific knockout of Ythdf2 ( Ythdf2 Lyz2 Cre ) were protected from PH with attenuated right ventricular hypertrophy and PVR compared to control mice and this was accompanied by decreased macrophage polarization and oxidative stress. In the absence of Ythdf2 , heme oxygenase 1 (Hmox1) mRNA and protein expression were significantly elevated in hypoxic AMs. Mechanistically, Ythdf2 promoted the degradation of Hmox1 mRNA in a m 6 A dependent manner. Furthermore, an inhibitor of Hmox1 promoted macrophage alternative activation, and reversed the protection from PH seen in Ythdf2 Lyz2 Cre mice under hypoxic exposure. Together, our data reveal a novel mechanism linking m 6 A RNA modification with changes in macrophage phenotype, inflammation and oxidative stress in PH, and identify Hmox1 as a downstream target of Ythdf2 , suggesting that Ythdf2 may be a therapeutic target in PH. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • Ythdf2 was upregulated in alveolar macrophages at the early stage of PH. • Myeloid Ythdf2 deficiency alleviated SU5416/hypoxia induced PH in mice. • Ythdf2 absence attenuated inflammation and oxidative stress in alveolar macrophages. • Ythdf2 promote PH pathogenesis by degrading m6A modified Hmox1 mRNA. • Ythdf2/Hmox1 pathway can be a potential target for PH diagnosis and treatment.
