Title: An Interface Setup Optimization Method Using a Throughput Estimation Model for Concurrently Communicating Access Points in a Wireless Local Area Network
Authors: Fatema Akhter, Nobuo Funabiki, Ei Ei Htet, Bin Wu, Dezheng Kong, Shihao Fang
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23146367
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10385122

Abstract:
The IEEE 802.11 wireless local-area network (WLAN) has been deployed around the globe as a major Internet access medium due to its low cost and high flexibility and capacity. Unfortunately, dense wireless networks can suffer from poor performance due to high levels of radio interference resulting from adjoining access points (APs) . To address this problem, we studied the AP transmission power optimization method , which selects the maximum or minimum power supplied to each AP so that the average signal-to-interference ratio (SIR) among the concurrently communicating APs is maximized.However, this method requires measurements of receiving signal strength (RSS) under all the possible combinations of powers. It may need intolerable loads and time as the number of APs increases. It also only considers the use of channel bonding (CB) , although non-CB sometimes achieves higher performance under high levels of interference. In this paper, we present an AP interface setup optimization method using the throughput estimation model for concurrently communicating APs. The proposed method selects CB or non-CB in addition to the maximum or minimum power for each AP. This model approach avoids expensive costs of RSS measurements under a number of combinations. To estimate the RSS at an AP from another AP or a host, the model needs the distance and the obstacles between them, such as walls. Then, by calculating the estimated RSS with the model and calculating the SIR from them, the AP interface setups for a lot of APs in a large-scale wireless network can be optimized on a computer in a very short time. For evaluation, we conducted extensive experiments using Raspberry Pi for APs and Linux PCs for hosts under 12 network topologies in three buildings at Okayama University, Japan, and Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University, Bangladesh. The results confirm that the proposed method selects the best AP interface setup with the highest total throughput in any topology.
