Title: In situ formation of cocatalytic sites boosts single-atom catalysts for nitrogen oxide reduction
Authors: Pengfei Wang, Guoquan Liu, Zhifei Hao, He Zhang, Yi Li, Wenming Sun, Lirong Zheng, Sihui Zhan
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216584120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974487

Abstract:
Significance The use of oxide-supported isolated Pt single atoms as catalytic active sites is of interest due to their maximum atom utilization efficiency and unique catalytic properties for the removal of NO x . However, relationships between the structure of active center, the dynamic response to environments, and catalytic functionality have proved difficult to experimentally establish. This research reveals that the in situ formation of adjacent cocatalytic sites boosts single-atom catalysts for the conversion of NO x during the catalytic reaction of NO x reduction with H 2 . The presence of cocatalytic sites tunes and optimizes the catalytic performance at the atomic scale that can benefit the environment and human health by removing NO x efficiently. Nitrogen oxide (NO x ) pollution presents a severe threat to the environment and human health. Catalytic reduction of NO x with H 2 using single-atom catalysts poses considerable potential in the remediation of air pollution; however, the unfavorable process of H 2 dissociation limits its practical application. Herein, we report that the in situ formation of Pt Ti cocatalytic sites (which are stabilized by Pt–Ti bonds) over Pt 1 /TiO 2 significantly increases NO x conversion by reducing the energy barrier of H 2 activation. We demonstrate that two H atoms of H 2 molecule are absorbed by adjacent Pt atoms in Pt–O and Pt–Ti, respectively, which can promote the cleave of H–H bonds. Besides, Pt Ti sites facilitate the adsorption of NO molecules and further lower the activation barrier of the whole de-NO x reaction. Extending the concept to Pt 1 /Nb 2 O 5 and Pd 1 /TiO 2 systems also sees enhanced catalytic activities, demonstrating that engineering the cocatalytic sites can be a general strategy for the design of high-efficiency catalysts that can benefit environmental sustainability.
