Title: 2,3-Butanediol from the leachates of pine needles induces the resistance of Panax notoginseng to the leaf pathogen Alternaria panax
Authors: Tian-Yao Li, Chen Ye, Yi-Jie Zhang, Jun-Xing Zhang, Min Yang, Xia-Hong He, Xin-Yue Mei, Yi-Xiang Liu, You-Yong Zhu, Hui-Chuan Huang, Shu-Sheng Zhu
Year: 2023
Venue: Plant Diversity
DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2022.02.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975478

Abstract:
Compared with the use of monocultures in the field, cultivation of medicinal herbs in forests is an effective strategy to alleviate disease. Chemical interactions between herbs and trees play an important role in disease suppression in forests. We evaluated the ability of leachates from needles of Pinus armandii to induce resistance in Panax notoginseng leaves, identified the components via gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS), and then deciphered the mechanism of 2,3-Butanediol as the main component in the leachates responsible for resistance induction via RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Prespraying leachates and 2,3-Butanediol onto leaves could induce the resistance of P. notoginseng to Alternaria panax . The RNA-seq results showed that prespraying 2,3-Butanediol onto leaves with or without A. panax infection upregulated the expression of large number of genes, many of which are involved in transcription factor activity and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Specifically, 2,3-Butanediol spraying resulted in jasmonic acid (JA) -mediated induced systemic resistance (ISR) by activating MYC2 and ERF1. Moreover, 2,3-Butanediol induced systemic acquired resistance (SAR) by upregulating pattern-triggered immunity (PTI)- and effector-triggered immunity (ETI)-related genes and activated camalexin biosynthesis through activation of WRKY33. Overall, 2,3-Butanediol from the leachates of pine needles could activate the resistance of P. notoginseng to leaf disease infection through ISR, SAR and camalexin biosynthesis. Thus, 2,3-Butanediol is worth developing as a chemical inducer for agricultural production. Highlights • Leachates from needles of Pinus armandii Franch could induce the resistance of Panax notoginseng to Alternaria panax. • 2,3-butanediol was identified as the main component in the leachates via GC–MS. • 2,3-butanediol could activate the resistance of P. notoginseng through ISR, SAR and camalexin biosynthesis.
