Title: Beyond VEGF: Targeting Inflammation and Other Pathways for Treatment of Retinal Disease
Authors: Anbukkarasi Muniyandi, Gabriella D. Hartman, Yang Song, Mahmut Mijit, Mark R. Kelley, Timothy W. Corson
Year: 2023
Venue: The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics
DOI: 10.1124/jpet.122.001563
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10289243

Abstract:
Neovascular eye diseases include conditions such as retinopathy of prematurity, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and neovascular age-related macular degeneration. Together, they are a major cause of vision loss and blindness worldwide. The current therapeutic mainstay for these diseases is intravitreal injections of biologics targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling. Lack of universal response to these anti-VEGF agents coupled with the challenging delivery method underscore a need for new therapeutic targets and agents. In particular, proteins that mediate both inflammatory and proangiogenic signaling are appealing targets for new therapeutic development. Here, we review agents currently in clinical trials and highlight some promising targets in preclinical and early clinical development, focusing on the redox-regulatory transcriptional activator APE1/Ref-1, the bioactive lipid modulator soluble epoxide hydrolase, the transcription factor RUNX1, and others. Small molecules targeting each of these proteins show promise for blocking neovascularization and inflammation. The affected signaling pathways illustrate the potential of new antiangiogenic strategies for posterior ocular disease. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Discovery and therapeutic targeting of new angiogenesis mediators is necessary to improve treatment of blinding eye diseases like retinopathy of prematurity, diabetic retinopathy, and neovascular age-related macular degeneration. Novel targets undergoing evaluation and drug discovery work include proteins important for both angiogenesis and inflammation signaling, including APE1/Ref-1, soluble epoxide hydrolase, RUNX1, and others.
