Title: Inadvertent, intraoperative, non- to minimally displaced periprosthetic humeral shaft fractures in RTSA do not affect the clinical and radiographic short-term outcome
Authors: Anita Hasler, Philipp Kriechling, Caroline Passaplan, Karl Wieser
Year: 2021
Venue: Archives of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00402-021-03930-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9886576

Abstract:
Introduction Little information is available on the clinical and radiographic outcome of intraoperative, non- to minimally displaced humeral fractures that occur during implantation of a stemmed, reverse shoulder prosthesis but are only recognized on routine postoperative radiographs. The goal of this study is to report the clinical and radiographic outcome for this rarely reported fracture type. Materials and methods 39 conservatively treated non- to minimally displaced intraoperative periprosthetic humeral fractures after stemmed RTSA were detected from our radiographic database between 1.1.2006 and 31.1.2018. Exclusion criteria were lack of patient consent, preoperative humeral fracture, and revision arthroplasties. Clinical (absolute and relative Constant score, the Subjective Shoulder Value) and radiographic (conventional radiographs) assessment was performed preoperatively, at 6 weeks (only radiographically) and at latest follow-up with a minimum follow-up of 2 years. Results 35 patient’s with a mean age of 72 years (range 32–88, SD ± 11 years) and a mean follow-up of 53 months (range 24–124, SD ± 31) were included in the study. At latest follow-up, all clinical outcome parameters except external rotation improved significantly. A complication rate of 17% ( n :6) was recorded. At 6 weeks after the index surgery, none of the radiographs showed a fracture displacement or a sintering of the stem. At latest follow-up, all fractures were healed and no stem loosening was observed in any of the shoulders. Conclusions Non- to minimally displaced intraoperative periprosthetic humeral fractures in RTSA have an incidence of about 5% in this series of mainly uncemented press-fit stems. They generally heal without any further treatment and are not associated with stem loosening or compromise the clinical outcome after primary RTSA. Except slight restriction in the postoperative rehabilitation protocol, no further attention or action is needed.
