Title: Exploration of Maternal and Fetal Toxicity Risks for Metronidazole-Related Teratogenicity and Hepatotoxicity through an Assessment in Albino Rats
Authors: Mervat A. AbdRabou, Barakat M. Alrashdi, Hadeel K. Alruwaili, Reda H. Elmazoudy, Maha A. Alwaili, Sarah I. Othman, Fawzyah A. Alghamdi, Gehan H. Fahmy
Year: 2023
Venue: Toxics
DOI: 10.3390/toxics11040303
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141390

Abstract:
Metronidazole is the primary antimicrobial drug for treating acute and chronic vaginal pathogens during pregnancy; however, there has been insufficient research on placental disorders, early pregnancy loss, and preterm birth. Here, the potential activity of metronidazole on pregnancy outcomes was investigated. 130 mg/kg body weight of metronidazole was orally given individually to pregnant rats on gestation days 0–7, 7–14, and 0–20. Pregnancy outcome evaluations were carried out on gestation day 20. It was demonstrated that metronidazole could induce maternal and fetal hepatotoxicity. There is a significant increase in the activities of maternal hepatic enzymes (ALT, AST, and ALP), total cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with the control. These biochemical findings were evidenced by maternal and fetal liver histopathological alterations. Furthermore, metronidazole caused a significant decrease in the number of implantation sites and fetal viability, whereas it caused an increase in fetal lethality and the number of fetal resorptions. In addition, a significant decrease in fetal weight, placental weight, and placental diameter was estimated. Macroscopical examination revealed placental discoloration and hypotrophy in the labyrinth zone and the degeneration of the basal zone. The fetal defects are related to exencephaly, visceral hernias, and tail defects. These findings suggest that the administration of metroniazole during gestation interferes with embryonic implantation and fetal organogenesis and enhances placental pathology. We can also conclude that metronidazole has potential maternal and fetal risks and is unsafe during pregnancy. Additionally, it should be strictly advised and prescribed, and further consideration should be given to the associated health risks.
