Title: Targeting Epigenetic Changes Mediated by Members of the SMYD Family of Lysine Methyltransferases
Authors: Alyssa Padilla, John F. Manganaro, Lydia Huesgen, Deborah A. Roess, Mark A. Brown, Debbie C. Crans
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28042000
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967872

Abstract:
A comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms involved in epigenetic changes in gene expression is essential to the clinical management of diseases linked to the SMYD family of lysine methyltransferases. The five known SMYD enzymes catalyze the transfer of donor methyl groups from S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to specific lysines on histones and non-histone substrates. SMYDs family members have distinct tissue distributions and tissue-specific functions, including regulation of development, cell differentiation, and embryogenesis. Diseases associated with SMYDs include the repressed transcription of SMYD1 genes needed for the formation of ion channels in the heart leading to heart failure, SMYD2 overexpression in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) or p53-related cancers, and poor prognosis associated with SMYD3 overexpression in more than 14 types of cancer including breast cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer. Given the importance of epigenetics in various pathologies, the development of epigenetic inhibitors has attracted considerable attention from the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmacologic development of the inhibitors involves the identification of molecules regulating both functional SMYD SET (Suppressor of variegation, Enhancer of Zeste, Trithorax) and MYND (Myeloid-Nervy-DEAF1) domains, a process facilitated by available X-ray structures for SMYD1, SMYD2, and SMYD3. Important leads for potential pharmaceutical agents have been reported for SMYD2 and SMYD3 enzymes, and six epigenetic inhibitors have been developed for drugs used to treat myelodysplastic syndrome (Vidaza, Dacogen), cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (Zoinza, Isrodax), and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (Beleodag, Epidaza). The recently demonstrated reversal of SMYD histone methylation suggests that reversing the epigenetic effects of SMYDs in cancerous tissues may be a desirable target for pharmacological development.
