Title: Comparison of Functional Properties of Blood Plasma Collected from Black Goat and Hanwoo Cattle
Authors: Shine Htet Aung, Edirisinghe Dewage Nalaka Sandun Abeyrathne, Mahabbat Ali, Dong Uk Ahn, Young-Sun Choi, Ki-Chang Nam
Year: 2023
Venue: Food Science of Animal Resources
DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2022.e57
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890370

Abstract:
Abstract Slaughterhouse blood is a by-product of animal slaughter that can be a good source of animal protein. This research purposed to examine the functional qualities of the blood plasma from Hanwoo cattle, black goat, and their hydrolysates. Part of the plasma was hydrolyzed with proteolytic enzymes (Bacillus protease, papain, thermolysin, elastase, and α-chymotrypsin) to yield bioactive peptides under optimum conditions. The levels of hydrolysates were evaluated by 15% sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The antioxidant, metal-chelating, and angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory properties of intact blood plasma and selected hydrolysates were investigated. Accordingly, two plasma hydrolysates by protease (pH 6.5/55°C/3 h) and thermolysin (pH 7.5/37°C/3–6 h) were selected for analysis of their functional properties. In the oil model system, only goat blood plasma had lower levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances than the control. The diphenyl picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity was higher in cattle and goat plasma than in proteolytic hydrolysates. Ironchelating activities increased after proteolytic degradation except for protease-treated cattle blood. Copper-chelating activity was excellent in all test samples except for the original bovine plasma. As for ACE inhibition, only non-hydrolyzed goat plasma and its hydrolysates by thermolysin showed ACE inhibitory activity (9.86±5.03% and 21.77±3.74%). In conclusion, goat plasma without hydrolyzation and its hydrolysates can be a good source of bioactive compounds with functional characteristics, whereas cattle plasma has a relatively low value. Further studies on the molecular structure of these compounds are needed with more suitable enzyme combinations.
