Title: Tacrolimus Formulation, Exposure Variability, and Outcomes in Kidney Transplant Recipients
Authors: Elaine F. Lai, Huong Thao Nguyen, Olusegun Famure, Yanhong Li, S. Joseph Kim
Year: 2022
Venue: Progress in Transplantation (Aliso Viejo, Calif.)
DOI: 10.1177/15269248221145044
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968997

Abstract:
Introduction Few studies have compared within-patient variability measures of tacrolimus trough levels by formulation and assessed within-patient variability on outcomes of kidney transplant recipients. Research Questions (1) To compare within-patient variability of trough levels when converting from twice-daily to once-daily tacrolimus using standard deviation, coefficient of variation, and intrapatient variability percent. (2) To use the 3 measures of variability to examine the relationship between tacrolimus once-daily within-patient variability and total graft failure (i.e., return to chronic dialysis, pre-emptive retransplant, death with graft function). Design In this observational cohort study, within-patient variability of trough levels pre- and post-conversion from twice-daily to once-daily tacrolimus were compared using Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test. Graft outcomes were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves and multivariable Cox proportional hazards models. Results In 463 patients, within-patient variability differences pre- and post-conversion of median standard deviation, coefficient of variation, and intrapatient variability percent were −0.16 ( P = 0.09), −0.01 ( P = 0.52), and −1.41 ( P = 0.32), respectively. Post-conversion, every 1 unit increase in within-patient variability standard deviation and intrapatient variability percent and every 0.1 unit increase in the coefficient of variation was associated with an increased hazard ratio [1.19 ( P = 0.004), 1.02 ( P = 0.030), 1.13 ( P = 0.001), respectively] of total graft failure. Post-conversion, within-patient variability above cohort medians using standard deviation and coefficient of variation had a significantly higher risk of total graft failure. Discussion Under a program-wide conversion, no significant difference was observed in within-patient variability post-conversion from twice-daily to once-daily tacrolimus using the three measures of variability. High within-patient variability was associated with adverse transplant outcomes post-conversion.
