Title: Conformational dynamics of the Hsp70 chaperone throughout key steps of its ATPase cycle
Authors: Lukas Rohland, Roman Kityk, Luka Smalinskaitė, Matthias P. Mayer
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2123238119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889847

Abstract:
Significance The ATP-dependent Hsp70 chaperones are central hubs of the cellular quality surveillance network, assisting the folding of proteins from their synthesis at the ribosomes to their degradation by the proteasome or lysosomes. How Hsp70s perform their many functions is currently unclear. Crystal structures of Hsp70 with bound ADP, ATP, or ATP and peptide revealed large differences in domain arrangements. To arrive at a molecular understanding of Hsp70s, we analyzed the dynamics of conformational changes on ATP binding to apo Hsp70, on client binding to Hsp70·ATP and on the effects of their J-domain protein cochaperone and nucleotide-exchange factor. Our data present important insights into the mechanics, allostery, and dynamics of Hsp70 chaperones. The 70 kDa heat shock proteins (Hsp70s) are highly versatile molecular chaperones that assist in a wide variety of protein-folding processes. They exert their functions by continuously cycling between states of low and high affinity for client polypeptides, driven by ATP-binding and hydrolysis. This cycling is tuned by cochaperones and clients. Although structures for the high and low client affinity conformations of Hsp70 and Hsp70 domains in complex with various cochaperones and peptide clients are available, it is unclear how structural rearrangements in the presence of cochaperones and clients are orchestrated in space and time. Here, we report insights into the conformational dynamics of the prokaryotic model Hsp70 DnaK throughout its adenosine-5’-triphosphate hydrolysis (ATPase) cycle using proximity-induced fluorescence quenching. Our data suggest that ATP and cochaperone-induced structural rearrangements in DnaK occur in a sequential manner and resolve hitherto unpredicted cochaperone and client-induced structural rearrangements. Peptides induce large conformational changes in DnaK·ATP prior to ATP hydrolysis, whereas a protein client induces significantly smaller changes but is much more effective in stimulating ATP hydrolysis. Analysis of the enthalpies of activation for the ATP-induced opening of the DnaK lid in the presence of clients indicates that the lid does not exert an enthalpic pulling force onto bound clients, suggesting entropic pulling as a major mechanism for client unfolding. Our data reveal important insights into the mechanics, allostery, and dynamics of Hsp70 chaperones. We established a methodology for understanding the link between dynamics and function, Hsp70 diversity, and activity modulation.
