Title: Explosive electrostatic instability of ferroelectric liquid droplets on ferroelectric solid surfaces
Authors: Raouf Barboza, Stefano Marni, Fabrizio Ciciulla, Farooq Ali Mir, Giovanni Nava, Federico Caimi, Annamaria Zaltron, Noel A. Clark, Tommaso Bellini, Liana Lucchetti
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2207858119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371712

Abstract:
Significance In this work, we show that when sessile droplets of the newly discovered ferroelectric nematic fluid phase are deposited on a ferroelectric solid substrate, they can become suddenly unstable and disintegrate though the emission of fluid jets. The instability is due to the coupling between the polarizations of the liquid and solid materials, which induces the accumulation of polarization charges on the droplet–air interface and thus, the buildup of a repulsion pressure that eventually overcomes the surface tension. This kind of polarization-induced Rayleigh instability crucially depends on the unique combination of polarization and fluidity of the ferroelectric nematic and might provide the basis for electrohydromechanical applications. We investigated the electrostatic behavior of ferroelectric liquid droplets exposed to the pyroelectric field of a lithium niobate ferroelectric crystal substrate. The ferroelectric liquid is a nematic liquid crystal, in which almost complete polar ordering of the molecular dipoles generates an internal macroscopic polarization locally collinear to the mean molecular long axis. Upon entering the ferroelectric phase by reducing the temperature from the nematic phase, the liquid crystal droplets become electromechanically unstable and disintegrate by the explosive emission of fluid jets. These jets are mostly interfacial, spreading out on the substrate surface, and exhibit fractal branching out into smaller streams to eventually disrupt, forming secondary droplets. We understand this behavior as a manifestation of the Rayleigh instability of electrically charged fluid droplets, expected when the electrostatic repulsion exceeds the surface tension of the fluid. In this case, the charges are due to the bulk polarization of the ferroelectric fluid, which couples to the pyroelectric polarization of the underlying lithium niobate substrate through its fringing field and solid–fluid interface coupling. Since the ejection of fluid does not neutralize the droplet surfaces, they can undergo multiple explosive events as the temperature decreases.
