Title: Predictors of mortality and length of stay after hip fractures – A multicenter retrospective analysis
Authors: Ali Lari, Abdullah Haidar, Yasmen AlRumaidhi, Mohammad Awad, Owayed AlMutairi
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Clinical Orthopaedics and Trauma
DOI: 10.1016/j.jcot.2022.101853
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8990212

Abstract:
Background The ubiquity of hip fractures pose a substantial burden on public health services worldwide. There is widespread geographical variation in mortality rates and length of stay after hip fractures. The current study investigates both the predictors of; (1) one-year mortality and (2) length of hospital stay (LOS) in adults aged 60 years or older. We aim to identify the risk factors and quantify the extent of influence they have on both outcomes. Methodology A retrospective multi-center cohort study identified consecutively documented hip fractures between January 2013 and September 2018. A multivariate regression analysis of 603 patients was performed to determine independent factors affecting mortality and total LOS. Results The study sample included 603 patients with a total one-year mortality rate of 20.6% (n = 124). Predictors of mortality included; longer LOS, increasing age, inability to return to baseline mobility and comorbid burden. The mean overall LOS was 15.1 days, and 22.6 days in the mortality group. Predictors of increased LOS included; previous hip fractures, comorbid burden; diabetic, cerebrovascular disease and smokers. Return to baseline mobility status was associated with reduced LOS. Conclusion Patients with a longer length of stay, inability to return to baseline mobility status, higher ASA scores, previous hip fractures and longer time to surgery had a higher mortality rate. Determinants of a longer LOS include; increased time to surgery, impeded postoperative mobility status, fixation rather than joint replacement and comorbid burden. A multifaceted approach to preoperative optimization and postoperative recovery is crucial in order to address all possible modifiable factors.
