Title: A pilot study of on‐site evaluation as external quality assessment for ISO 15189 accreditation of laboratories performing next‐generation sequencing oncology tests
Authors: Mendamar Ravzanaadii, Satomi Asai, Hidefumi Kakizoe, Munkh‐Erdene Natsagdorj, Hayato Miyachi
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis
DOI: 10.1002/jcla.24901
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10388225

Abstract:
Abstract Background As next‐generation sequencing (NGS) oncology tests vary by platform, application, and target of genes, specific methods for external quality assessment (EQA) have not been universally applied. Hence, we have attempted to implement on‐site evaluation as EQA in the accreditation program under ISO 15189 for laboratories that perform NGS oncology tests. Methods A total of 10 laboratories that performed NGS oncology tests were enrolled. Two types of EQA samples were prepared (Acrometrix Oncology Hotspot Control DNA and OncoSpan gDNA DNA samples), and the variant allele frequency of targeted genes was assigned. The samples were subjected to NGS oncology tests in participant laboratories according to their routine protocols. Based on the result reports, auditors visited the participant laboratories to perform on‐site evaluations and provided feedback regarding possible laboratory process improvement. Results The participant laboratories identified the targeted variants in the Acrometrix Oncology Hotspot Control DNA and OncoSpan gDNA samples with a success rate of 31–100% and 9.5–100%, respectively, compared with reference information, depending on their sequencing systems, and reported a few lower‐variant allele frequencies. Six of the eight evaluated laboratories failed to report at least three pathogenic variants due to errors in wet‐lab and/or dry‐lab processes. Based on the feedback reports and self‐assessment, auditors and laboratory staff discussed potential improvements to processes during on‐site evaluations for laboratory accreditations. Conclusions On‐site evaluation as EQA for NGS oncology tests in the laboratory accreditation program under ISO 15189 was successfully implemented and proved applicable to a broad spectrum of NGS tests. We attempted to implement on‐site evaluation as an external quality assessment for ISO 15189 accreditation of the laboratory performing next‐generation sequencing oncology tests. Two types of EQA samples were prepared, that is, genome‐based and DNA‐based samples, and provided to a total of five laboratories. It was successfully implemented and proved applicable to a broad spectrum of the NGS tests, through feedback reports, self‐assessment, and discussion between auditors and laboratory staffs, resulting in improvement of ongoing processes in the on‐site evaluation for accreditation of the laboratory.
