Title: Does intergenerational support affect older People’s social participation? An Empirical study of an older Chinese population
Authors: Yiqi Wangliu
Year: 2023
Venue: SSM - Population Health
DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101368
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974446

Abstract:
As a means of social support, intergenerational support plays an essential role in encouraging older people to participate in society. Data on 3142 older adults were collected from the China Survey of Elderly Health Influencing Factors (CLHLS), and logistic regression models were used to determine the effects of several types of intergenerational support on social participation and whether self-rated health and life satisfaction mediated the associations between intergenerational support and social participation. Among all the three types of intergenerational support, the results showed that financial support and emotional support were positively associated with the social participation of the older Chinese in our sample. We observed rural–urban differences in the effects of financial support and emotional support on social participation, which were significant in the urban groups. Gender differences also exist in these relationships. The effects of emotional support on social participation were significant in both groups and the impact of financial support was obvious only in the female group. Regarding the mediating effect, financial support was found to improve the participants’ self-rated health, which enhanced their social participation. Emotional support increased the participants’ life satisfaction, which led to higher levels of social participation. Based on the findings of this study, policymakers should advocate to strengthen financial and emotional support from adult children in the community. Highlights This study revealed. • Although previous studies have demonstrated the influence of support on social participation among older adults, they have not considered intergenerational support. The current study aimed to fill this gap in the research. After controlling for sociodemographic variables, caring support was not significantly associated with social participation, while financial and emotional support were significantly associated with older people’s social participation. • As for results of gender differences in associations, financial support significantly influenced social participation only in the female groups. Previous studies have demonstrated that because older women have fewer economic resources than older men, older women usually relied on adult children for financial assistances (Rudkin, 1993). Therefore, receiving more material support could bring them a sense of autonomy and control of life, and they may try to pursue personal values through social interactions. • As for urban-rural differences, effects of caring support were not significant in rural or urban areas while those of financial support and emotional support were significant only in the urban group. The potential reason could be many rural older adults might live with their children, so these older adults are more likely to interact with their adult children (Zhou et al., 2021) and more dependent on family for support (Luo et al., 2017). As for urban older adults, they may rely more on themselves. If adult children of urban older adults support them more, they may have more opportunities to participate in the society because social resources and opportunities are relatively greater in urban areas (He, 2011; Li et al., 2013). • Regarding the mediating effects, financial support significantly improved older people’s self-rated health and further improved their social participation, which supports previous studies that showed financial support was likely to decrease older people’s negative mental status (Guo et al., 2017; Xu, 2017) and contribute to their wellbeing (Jiao, 2020; Li, 2020; Liu, 2014; Yu, 2017). • In addition, our findings showed that emotional support significantly improved older people’s life satisfaction and led to better social participation. These findings are in line with previous studies that showed that emotional support decreased depressive symptoms (Ajrouch, 2007; Guo et al., 2017; Lang & Schutze, 2002; Xu, 2017) and enhanced life satisfaction (Nguyen et al., 2015; Yu, 2017). Consequently, better self-rated health was positively related to increased social participation (Aartsen, 2002; Maier & Klumb, 2005; Tian et al., 2021; Vogelsang, 2016).
