Title: Identification of olfactory receptor genes in the Japanese grenadier anchovy Coilia nasus
Authors: Guoli Zhu, Liangjiang Wang, Wenqiao Tang, Xiaomei Wang, Cong Wang
Year: 2017
Venue: Genes & Genomics
DOI: 10.1007/s13258-017-0517-8
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5387026

Abstract:
Olfaction is essential for fish to detect odorant elements in the environment and plays a critical role in navigating, locating food and detecting predators. Olfactory function is produced by the olfactory transduction pathway and is activated by olfactory receptors (ORs) through the binding of odorant elements. Recently, four types of olfactory receptors have been identified in vertebrate olfactory epithelium, including main odorant receptors (MORs), vomeronasal type receptors (VRs), trace-amine associated receptors (TAARs) and formyl peptide receptors (FPRs). It has been hypothesized that migratory fish, which have the ability to perform spawning migration, use olfactory cues to return to natal rivers. Therefore, obtaining OR genes from migratory fish will provide a resource for the study of molecular mechanisms that underlie fish spawning migration behaviors. Previous studies of OR genes have mainly focused on genomic data, however little information has been gained at the transcript level. In this study, we identified the OR genes of an economically important commercial fish Coilia nasus through searching for olfactory epithelium transcriptomes. A total of 142 candidate MOR, 52 V2R/OlfC, 32 TAAR and two FPR putative genes were identified. In addition, through genomic analysis we identified several MOR genes containing introns, which is unusual for vertebrate MOR genes. The transcriptome-scale mining strategy proved to be fruitful in identifying large sets of OR genes from species whose genome information is unavailable. Our findings lay the foundation for further research into the possible molecular mechanisms underlying the spawning migration behavior in C. nasus . Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s13258-017-0517-8) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
