Title: Factors Influencing the Initial Constraint Level of the Knee Joint and Its Effect on Clinical Outcomes After ACL Reconstruction With Hamstring Graft
Authors: Kwangho Chung, Chong Hyuk Choi, Min Jung, Jeehoon Choi, Sung-Jae Kim, Sung-Hwan Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Orthopaedic Journal of Sports Medicine
DOI: 10.1177/23259671221148451
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974630

Abstract:
Background: A force-based tension protocol that uses a certain amount of tension at graft fixation could still give rise to variations in initial constraint levels of the knee joint in terms of side-to-side difference (SSD) in anterior translation. Purpose: To investigate the factors influencing the initial constraint level in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)–reconstructed knees and compare outcomes according to the level of constraint in terms of anterior translation SSD. Study Design: Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Methods: Included were 113 patients who underwent ipsilateral ACL reconstruction using an autologous hamstring graft and had minimum 2-year follow-up outcomes. All grafts were tensioned and fixed at 80 N using a tensioner at the time of graft fixation. The patients were classified into the following 2 groups according to the initial anterior translation SSD, measured using the KT-2000 arthrometer: a physiologic constraint group with restored anterior laxity ≤2 mm (group P; n = 66) and a high-constraint group with restored anterior laxity >2 mm (group H; n = 47). Clinical outcomes were compared between the groups, and preoperative and intraoperative variables were evaluated to identify factors affecting the initial constraint level. Results: Between group P and group H, generalized joint laxity ( P = .005), posterior tibial slope ( P = .022), and anterior translation measured in the contralateral knee ( P < .001) were found to differ significantly. Measured anterior translation in the contralateral knee was the only significant predictor of high initial graft tension ( P = .001). No significant differences were found between the groups regarding clinical outcomes and subsequent surgery. Conclusion: Greater anterior translation measured in the contralateral knee was an independent predictor of a more constrained knee after ACL reconstruction. The short-term clinical outcomes after ACL reconstruction were comparable, regardless of the initial constraint level in terms of anterior translation SSD.
