Title: Association of Variation in US County-Level Rates of Liver Surgical Resection for Colorectal Liver Metastasis With Poverty Rates in 2010
Authors: George Molina, Mengyuan Ruan, Stuart R. Lipsitz, Hari S. Iyer, Michael J. Hassett, Mary E. Brindle, Quoc-Dien Trinh
Year: 2023
Venue: JAMA Network Open
DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.0797
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9972196

Abstract:
Key Points Question Do county-level rates of liver metastasectomy for colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM) vary geographically in the US based on county-level socioeconomic characteristics? Findings In this cross-sectional study of 194 US counties and 11 348 patients, the adjusted odds of undergoing liver metastasectomy for CRLM was lower in counties with higher poverty in 2010. However, county-level poverty was not associated with receipt of surgery for stage I colorectal cancer. Meaning The results of this study suggest that access to surgical care for complex gastrointestinal cancers such as CRLM in the US may be partially affected by where patients live. This cross-sectional study uses Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Research Plus data to examine the association of US county-level variation in receipt of liver metastasectomy for colorectal liver metastasis with poverty rates in 2010. Importance Among patients with colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM) who are eligible for curative-intent liver surgical resection, only half undergo liver metastasectomy. It is currently unclear how rates of liver metastasectomy vary geographically in the US. Geographic differences in county-level socioeconomic characteristics may, in part, explain variability in the receipt of liver metastasectomy for CRLM. Objective To describe county-level variation in the receipt of liver metastasectomy for CRLM in the US and its association with poverty rates. Design, Setting, and Participants This ecological, cross-sectional, and county-level analysis was conducted using data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Research Plus database. The study included the county-level proportion of patients who had colorectal adenocarcinoma diagnosed between January 1, 2010, and December 31, 2018, underwent primary surgical resection, and had liver metastasis without extrahepatic metastasis. The county-level proportion of patients with stage I colorectal cancer (CRC) was used as a comparator. Data analysis was performed on March 2, 2022. Exposures County-level poverty in 2010 obtained from the US Census (proportion of county population below the federal poverty level). Main Outcomes and Measures The primary outcome was county-level odds of liver metastasectomy for CRLM. The comparator outcome was county-level odds of surgical resection for stage I CRC. Multivariable binomial logistic regression accounting for clustering of outcomes within a county via an overdispersion parameter was used to estimate the county-level odds of receiving a liver metastasectomy for CRLM associated with a 10% increase in poverty rate. Results In the 194 US counties included in this study, there were 11 348 patients. At the county level, the majority of the population was male (mean [SD], 56.9% [10.2%]), White (71.9% [20.0%]), and aged between 50 and 64 (38.1% [11.0%]) or 65 and 79 (33.6% [11.4%]) years. The adjusted odds of undergoing a liver metastasectomy was lower in counties with higher poverty in 2010 (per 10% increase; odds ratio, 0.82 [95% CI, 0.69-0.96]; P = .02). County-level poverty was not associated with receipt of surgery for stage I CRC. Despite the difference in rates of surgery (mean county-level rates were 0.24 for liver metastasectomy for CRLM and 0.75 for surgery for stage I CRC), the variance at the county-level for these 2 surgical procedures was similar ( F 370, 193 = 0.81; P = .08). Conclusions and Relevance The findings of this study suggest that higher poverty was associated with lower receipt of liver metastasectomy among US patients with CRLM. Surgery for a more common and less complex cancer comparator (ie, stage I CRC) was not observed to be associated with county-level poverty rates. However, county-level variation in surgical rates was similar for CRLM and stage I CRC. These findings further suggest that access to surgical care for complex gastrointestinal cancers such as CRLM may be partially influenced by where patients live.
