Title: Retrospective Comparison of Anesthetic Methods for Percutaneous Balloon Kyphoplasty Surgery: General Anesthesia and Erector Spinae Plane Block
Authors: Ufuk Demir, Öztürk Taşkın
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59020240
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967985

Abstract:
Background and Objectives : This study aims to investigate whether erector spinae plane (ESP) block can be an alternative to general anesthesia as a primary anesthesia method in percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty surgery. In addition, postoperative intensive care needs were compared in terms of length of intensive care unit stay and length of hospital stay. Materials and Methods : Medical records of patients who underwent percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty operation at Kastamonu Training and Research Hospital between January 2020 and November 2022 were reviewed retrospectively. Among 70 patients who underwent percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty, 58 patients with ASA (American Association of Anesthesiologists) classification III or IV, who underwent general anesthesia as the anesthesia method or ESP block, were included in the study. The patients were divided into two groups according to the anesthesia method applied. Group GA: general anesthesia group ( n = 19) and Group ESP: ESP block group ( n = 39). Group data for age, gender, ASA classification, number of surgical levels, surgical urgency, duration of surgery, postoperative complications, need for intensive care, length of stay in the intensive care unit, and hospital stay were compared. Results : There was no statistically significant difference between Group GA and Group ESP in terms of age, gender, ASA classification, surgical urgency, number of surgical levels, duration of surgery, and postoperative complication data of the patients included in the study. Seven (36.6%) patients in Group GA and six (15.4%) patients in Group ESP needed intensive care, and there was no statistically significant difference between the groups ( p = 0.06). However, the need for intensive care was higher in Group GA. A statistically significant difference was found in Group GA and Group ESP, which was higher in Group GA for the length of stay in the intensive care unit ( p = 0.02) and length of hospitalization ( p = 0.04). Conclusions : ESP block may be an alternative method to general anesthesia as the primary anesthetic option for single or multilevel percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty surgery. With the ESP block, the length of stay in the intensive care unit and the length of stay in the hospital can be reduced, especially in high-risk patients.
