Title: Disease burden among Ukrainians forcibly displaced by the 2022 Russian invasion
Authors: Abhishek Pandey, Chad R. Wells, Valentyn Stadnytskyi, Seyed M. Moghadas, Madhav V. Marathe, Pratha Sah, William Crystal, Lauren Ancel Meyers, Burton H. Singer, Olena Nesterova, Alison P. Galvani
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215424120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974407

Abstract:
Significance On February 24, 2022, Russia began its invasion of Ukraine, triggering one of the largest mass migrations in Europe since World War II. Although the number and location of displaced individuals are available, there is limited information about their points of origin and health needs. This study estimates the burden of some of Ukraine’s most prevalent diseases—cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, HIV, and tuberculosis—among forcibly displaced Ukrainians due to the 2022 Russian invasion. Our findings indicate regions where healthcare systems may face immediate strain and suggest critical targets for humanitarian aid within Ukraine. The Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, has displaced more than a quarter of the population. Assessing disease burdens among displaced people is instrumental in informing global public health and humanitarian aid efforts. We estimated the disease burden in Ukrainians displaced both within Ukraine and to other countries by combining a spatiotemporal model of forcible displacement with age- and gender-specific estimates of cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, cancer, HIV, and tuberculosis (TB) in each of Ukraine’s 629 raions (i.e., districts). Among displaced Ukrainians as of May 13, we estimated that more than 2.63 million have CVDs, at least 615,000 have diabetes, and over 98,500 have cancer. In addition, more than 86,000 forcibly displaced individuals are living with HIV, and approximately 13,500 have TB. We estimated that the disease prevalence among refugees was lower than the national disease prevalence before the invasion. Accounting for internal displacement and healthcare facilities impacted by the conflict, we estimated that the number of people per hospital has increased by more than two-fold in some areas. As regional healthcare systems come under increasing strain, these estimates can inform the allocation of critical resources under shifting disease burdens.
