Title: Evaluation of Soybean Wildfire Prediction via Hyperspectral Imaging
Authors: Liny Lay, Hong Seok Lee, Rupesh Tayade, Amit Ghimire, Yong Suk Chung, Youngnam Yoon, Yoonha Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Plants
DOI: 10.3390/plants12040901
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967622

Abstract:
Plant diseases that affect crop production and productivity harm both crop quality and quantity. To minimize loss due to disease, early detection is a prerequisite. Recently, different technologies have been developed for plant disease detection. Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) is a nondestructive method for the early detection of crop disease and is based on the spatial and spectral information of images. Regarding plant disease detection, HSI can predict disease-induced biochemical and physical changes in plants. Bacterial infections, such as Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci , are among the most common plant diseases in areas of soybean cultivation, and have been implicated in considerably reducing soybean yield. Thus, in this study, we used a new method based on HSI analysis for the early detection of this disease. We performed the leaf spectral reflectance of soybean with the effect of infected bacterial wildfire during the early growth stage. This study aimed to classify the accuracy of the early detection of bacterial wildfire in soybean leaves. Two varieties of soybean were used for the experiment, Cheongja 3-ho and Daechan, as control (noninoculated) and treatment (bacterial wildfire), respectively. Bacterial inoculation was performed 18 days after planting, and the imagery data were collected 24 h following bacterial inoculation. The leaf reflectance signature revealed a significant difference between the diseased and healthy leaves in the green and near-infrared regions. The two-way analysis of variance analysis results obtained using the Python package algorithm revealed that the disease incidence of the two soybean varieties, Daechan and Cheongja 3-ho, could be classified on the second and third day following inoculation, with accuracy values of 97.19% and 95.69%, respectively, thus proving his to be a useful technique for the early detection of the disease. Therefore, creating a wide range of research platforms for the early detection of various diseases using a nondestructive method such HSI is feasible.
