Title: Cellular Uptake of Silica Particles Influences EGFR Signaling Pathway and is Affected in Response to EGF
Authors: Mauro Sousa de Almeida, Arya Roshanfekr, Sandor Balog, Alke Petri-Fink, Barbara Rothen-Rutishauser
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Nanomedicine
DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S388557
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975537

Abstract:
Background The human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that is involved in several key cellular processes, such as cell proliferation and differentiation, and it has been linked to the development and progression of various cancers (e.g., breast and lung). Researchers have attempted to improve current cancer-targeted therapies by conjugating molecules on the surface of (nano)particles to efficiently target and inhibit EGFR. However, very few in vitro studies have investigated the effect of particles per se on EGFR signaling and dynamics. Furthermore, the impact of concomitant exposure of particles and EGFR ligands, such as epidermal growth factor (EGF) on cellular uptake efficiency has received little attention. Purpose The purpose of this research was to determine the effects of silica (SiO 2 ) particles on EGFR expression and intracellular signaling pathways in A549 lung epithelial cells, in the presence or absence of epidermal growth factor (EGF). Results We showed that A549 cells are able to internalize SiO 2 particles with core diameters of 130 nm and 1 µm without affecting cell proliferation or migration. However, both SiO 2 particles interfere with the EGFR signaling pathway by raising the endogenous levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2. Furthermore, both in the presence and absence of SiO 2 particles, the addition of EGF increased cell migration. EGF also stimulated cellular uptake of 130 nm SiO 2 particles but not 1 µm particles. The increased uptake is primarily associated with EGF-stimulated macropinocytosis. Conclusion This study shows that SiO 2 particle uptake interferes with cellular signaling pathways and can be boosted by concurrent exposure to the bioactive molecule EGF. SiO 2 particles, both alone and in combination with the ligand EGF, interfere with EGFR signaling pathway in a size-dependent manner.
