Title: Longitudinal in vivo Ca 2+ imaging reveals dynamic activity changes of diseased retinal ganglion cells at the single-cell level
Authors: Liang Li, Xue Feng, Fang Fang, David A. Miller, Shaobo Zhang, Pei Zhuang, Haoliang Huang, Pingting Liu, Junting Liu, Nripun Sredar, Liang Liu, Yang Sun, Xin Duan, Jeffrey L. Goldberg, Hao F. Zhang, Yang Hu
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206829119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889883

Abstract:
Significance Here, we present a proof-of-concept study that establishes a high-throughput in vivo imaging strategy to measure the light-evoked neuronal activities of thousands of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) simultaneously and noninvasively. By taking advantage of the superb optical accessibility of the mouse eye and the power of cSLO/GCaMP-mediated Ca 2+ imaging, we directly visualize RGC activities in response to visual stimulations for up to several weeks and develop and validate powerful analytic protocols. This technique allows us to appreciate the striking dynamic functional changes of RGCs at both population and single-cell levels under normal, traumatic, and glaucomatous conditions. Future development and broader applications of this technique in the future will provide highly informative and insights into RGC physiology and pathology. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are heterogeneous projection neurons that convey distinct visual features from the retina to brain. Here, we present a high-throughput in vivo RGC activity assay in response to light stimulation using noninvasive Ca 2+ imaging of thousands of RGCs simultaneously in living mice. Population and single-cell analyses of longitudinal RGC Ca 2+ imaging reveal distinct functional responses of RGCs and unprecedented individual RGC activity conversions during traumatic and glaucomatous degeneration. This study establishes a foundation for future in vivo RGC function classifications and longitudinal activity evaluations using more advanced imaging techniques and visual stimuli under normal, disease, and neural repair conditions. These analyses can be performed at both the population and single-cell levels using temporal and spatial information, which will be invaluable for understanding RGC pathophysiology and identifying functional biomarkers for diverse optic neuropathies.
