Title: Permanent stoma rates after anterior resection for rectal cancer: risk prediction scoring using preoperative variables
Authors: E Back, J Häggström, K Holmgren, M M Haapamäki, P Matthiessen, J Rutegård, M Rutegård
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab260
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364873

Abstract:
Abstract Background A permanent stoma after anterior resection for rectal cancer is common. Preoperative counselling could be improved by providing individualized accurate prediction modelling. Methods Patients who underwent anterior resection between 2007 and 2015 were identified from the Swedish Colorectal Cancer Registry. National Patient Registry data were added to determine presence of a stoma 2 years after surgery. A training set based on the years 2007–2013 was employed in an ensemble of prediction models. Judged by the area under the receiving operating characteristic curve (AUROC), data from the years 2014–2015 were used to evaluate the predictive ability of all models. The best performing model was subsequently implemented in typical clinical scenarios and in an online calculator to predict the permanent stoma risk. Results Patients in the training set ( n = 3512) and the test set ( n = 1136) had similar permanent stoma rates (13.6 and 15.2 per cent). The logistic regression model with a forward/backward procedure was the most parsimonious among several similarly performing models (AUROC 0.67, 95 per cent c.i. 0.63 to 0.72). Key predictors included co-morbidity, local tumour category, presence of metastasis, neoadjuvant therapy, defunctioning stoma use, tumour height, and hospital volume; the interaction between age and metastasis was also predictive. Conclusion Using routinely available preoperative data, the stoma outcome at 2 years after anterior resection for rectal cancer can be predicted fairly accurately. A permanent stoma is common after anterior resection for rectal cancer. Using national Swedish registry data, a prediction model was derived and validated, with moderate ability to predict the stoma fate. Online calculators incorporating this model might improve preoperative counselling.
