Title: Is Ultrasound (US)-Guided Platelet-Rich Plasma Injection More Efficacious as a Treatment Modality for Lateral Elbow Tendinopathy Than US-Guided Steroid Injection?: A Prospective Triple-Blinded Study with Midterm Follow-up
Authors: Prashant Kamble, Rudra Mangesh Prabhu, Abhinav Jogani, Shubhranshu S. Mohanty, Sameer Panchal, Shubham Dakhode
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22128
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232317

Abstract:
Background Lateral elbow tendinopathy (LET) has an array of modalities described for its management. The present study analyzed two modalities used for managing the condition. Methods The present study included 64 non-athletes with LET who failed conservative treatment that included avoiding strenuous activities, ice-fomentation, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, bracing, and physiotherapy for 6 months. A random allocation of the participants was done, with one group injected with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and the other group with corticosteroids. The procedure was performed by the same blinded orthopedic surgeon after localizing the pathology using ultrasound. Visual analog scale (VAS) scores, disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) scores, Patient-Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) scores, and handgrip strengths were recorded by blinded observers other than the surgeon administering the injection. Results The average age of the patients was 40 years. The mean VAS score at the latest follow-up of 2 years in the PRP group was 1.25 and it was significantly better than the score of 3.68 in the steroid group ( p < 0.001). The mean DASH score at the latest follow-up of 2 years in the PRP group was 4.00 and it was significantly better than the score of 7.43 in the steroid group ( p < 0.001). The mean PRTEE score at the latest follow-up of 2 years in the PRP group was 3.96 and it was significantly better than the score of 7.53 in the steroid group ( p < 0.001). The scores were better in the steroid group at a short-term follow-up of 3 months ( p < 0.05), while they were better in the PRP group at a long-term follow-up of 2 years ( p < 0.05). Hand-grip strength was comparable in the PRP group (84.43 kg force) and steroid group (76.71 kg force) at the end of the 2-year follow-up with no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.149). Conclusions Corticosteroid injections alleviated symptoms of LET over short-term follow-up providing quicker symptomatic relief; however, the effect faded off over the long term. PRP injections provided a more gradual but sustained improvement over the long-term follow-up, indicating the biological healing potential of PRP.
