Title: The Prevalence and Treatment Costs of Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer in Cluj-Napoca Maxillofacial Center
Authors: Cosmin Ioan Faur, Mădălina Anca Moldovan, Mădălina Văleanu, Horațiu Rotar, Laura Filip, Rareș Călin Roman
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59020220
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968035

Abstract:
Background and Objectives: An increasing incidence of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) is noted, as well as an increasing cost of the treatment, with NMSC becoming a public health problem. We aimed to investigate the prevalence and treatment costs of surgically treated NMSC from the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Department of Cluj-Napoca County Hospital. Materials and Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical data and the charge data of hospitalization from the informatic system of Cluj-Napoca County Hospital. All patients benefited from standard surgical excision with the reconstruction of the post-excisional defect. A statistical analysis of the costs related to the patients’ features, period and conditions of hospitalization, materials, medication, and paraclinical investigations was performed. Results: Between 2015 and 2019, 133 patients with NMSC were addressed to our department, with basal cell carcinoma (BCC) being four-fold higher than squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Most NMSC cases were diagnosed in stage I or II, and they benefited from local reconstruction. The treatment costs progressively increased in the last five years, reaching a total cost of EUR ~13.000 in 2019. The treatment cost per episode was higher for SCC compared to BCC, while the total cost of treatment in 5 years was higher for BCC. Low income, immunosuppression, comorbidities, flap reconstruction option, long-lasting surgery, and prolonged hospitalization were associated with an increased cost of the treatment. Conclusion: The prevalence and treatment cost of surgically treated NMSC of the head and neck region increased in the last five years, with high-cost drivers being related to patients and treatment options.
