Title: A deep learning-based reconstruction approach for accelerated magnetic resonance image of the knee with compressed sense: evaluation in healthy volunteers
Authors: Andra-Iza Iuga, Philip Santiago Rauen, Florian Siedek, Nils Große-Hokamp, Kristina Sonnabend, David Maintz, Simon Lennartz, Grischa Bratke
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20220074
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10230385

Abstract:
Objectives: To evaluate the feasibility of combining compressed sense (CS) with a newly developed deep learning-based algorithm (CS-AI) using convolutional neural networks to accelerate 2D MRI of the knee. Methods: In this prospective study, 20 healthy volunteers were scanned with a 3T MRI scanner. All subjects received a fat-saturated sagittal 2D proton density reference sequence without acceleration and four additional acquisitions with different acceleration levels: 2, 3, 4 and 6. All sequences were reconstructed with the conventional CS and a new CS-AI algorithm. Two independent, blinded readers rated all images by seven criteria (overall image impression, visible artifacts, delineation of anterior ligament, posterior ligament, menisci, cartilage, and bone) using a 5-point Likert scale. Signal- and contrast-to-noise ratios were calculated. Subjective ratings and quantitative metrics were compared between CS and CS-AI with similar acceleration levels and between all CS/CS-AI images and the non-accelerated reference sequence. Friedman and Dunn´s multiple comparison tests were used for subjective, ANOVA and the Tukey Kramer test for quantitative metrics. Results: Conventional CS images at the lowest acceleration level (CS2) were already rated significantly lower than reference for 6/7 criteria. CS-AI images maintained similar image quality to the reference up to CS-AI three for all criteria, which would allow for a reduction in scan time of 64% with unchanged image quality compared to the unaccelerated sequence. SNR and CNR were significantly higher for all CS-AI reconstructions compared to CS (all p < 0.05). Conclusions AI-based image reconstruction showed higher image quality than CS for 2D knee imaging. Its implementation in the clinical routine yields the potential for faster MRI acquisition but needs further validation in non-healthy study subjects. Advances in knowledge Combining compressed SENSE with a newly developed deep learning-based algorithm using convolutional neural networks allows a 64% reduction in scan time for 2D imaging of the knee. Implementation of the new deep learning-based algorithm in clinical routine in near future should enable better image quality/resolution with constant scan time, or reduced acquisition times while maintaining diagnostic quality.
