Title: Validation testing of a language translation device for suitability in assisting Australian radiation therapists to communicate with Mandarin-speaking patients
Authors: Darren Hunter, Richard Oates, Nigel Anderson, David Kok, Daniel Sapkaroski, Caroline Wright
Year: 2023
Venue: Technical Innovations & Patient Support in Radiation Oncology
DOI: 10.1016/j.tipsro.2023.100207
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232656

Abstract:
Highlights • Machine language translation holds promise in radiotherapy patient communication. • 66% translation accuracy across 188 trial phrases; higher than prior research. • Use of colloquial English results in poorer translation outcomes. • This study demonstrates a novel method for validation of translation devices. Introduction Clear, timely communication between practitioners and patients is key in ensuring equitable access to health services and optimal care. Australia’s linguistically diverse population adds complexity to healthcare provision. This paper describes a validation study to assess clinical suitability of a language translation device, intended for use with Mandarin speaking patients undergoing radiotherapy (RT). Materials and methods After a comprehensive device selection process, common phrases used in RT practice were curated within one clinical center and translated by interpreters. Phrases were categorized by conversation type and readability (according to Flesch-Kincaid and FORCAST scores). Validation of device performance was undertaken by purposely selected radiation therapists (RTTs) who tested and evaluated the device using a survey with 5-point Likert scale responses. Statistical analysis was undertaken on Excel using Pearson’s chi-square, z-test, interrater reliability/agreement and linear regression analyses. Results Six RTTs and two interpreters volunteered to participate in this study. 188 common phrases were spoken verbatim into the device and scored on a 5-point Likert scale, yielding an overall output accuracy of 66%. A z-test confirmed significance against prior comparative research and Linear regression analysis observed improved output between consecutive participants. 62.7% of interpreter scores were identical; a further 29.1% constituted a single point scoring variation. Poorer outcomes were observed with colloquial English and lower readability. Conclusions This study found the device produced suitable translation accuracy and identified language styles that should be avoided with use. Further research could consider clinical application, expanded languages and/or health disciplines, and development of a national RTT phrase list.
