Title: Destructive effect of HIFU on rabbit embedded endometrial carcinoma tissues and their vascularities
Authors: Liming Guan, Gang Xu
Year: 2017
Venue: Oncotarget
DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.14751
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386707

Abstract:
Objectives To evaluate damage effect of High-intensity focused ultrasound on early stage endometrial cancer tissues and their vascularities. Materials and Methods Rabbit endometrial cancer models were established via tumor blocks implantation for a prospective control study. Ultrasonic ablation efficacy was evaluated by pathologic and imaging changes. The target lesions of experimental rabbits before and after ultrasonic ablation were observed after autopsy. The slides were used for hematoxylin-eosin staining, elastic fiber staining and endothelial cell staining; the slides were observed by optical microscopy. One slide was observed by electron microscopy. Then the target lesions of experimental animals with ultrasonic ablation were observed by vascular imaging, one group was visualized by digital subtract angiography, one group was quantified by color Doppler flow imaging, and one group was detected by dye perfusion. SPSS 19.0 software was used for statistical analyses. Results Histological examination indicated that High-intensity focused ultrasound caused the tumor tissues and their vascularities coagulative necrosis. Tumor vascular structure components including elastic fiber, endothelial cells all were destroyed by ultrasonic ablation. Digital subtract angiography showed tumor vascular shadow were dismissed after ultrasonic ablation. After ultrasonic ablation, gray-scale of tumor nodules enhanced in ultrasonography, tumor peripheral and internal blood flow signals disappeared or significantly reduced in color Doppler flow imaging. Vascular perfusion performed after ultrasonic ablation, tumor vessels could not filled by dye liquid. Conclusion High-intensity focused ultrasound as a noninvasive method can destroy whole endometrial cancer cells and their supplying vascularities, which maybe an alternative approach of targeted therapy and new antiangiogenic strategy for endometrial cancer.
