Title: Multiplex immune profiling reveals the role of serum immune proteomics in predicting response to preoperative chemotherapy of gastric cancer
Authors: Zhaoqing Tang, Yuan Gu, Zhongyi Shi, Lingqiang Min, Ziwei Zhang, Peng Zhou, Rongkui Luo, Yan Wang, Yuehong Cui, Yihong Sun, Xuefei Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100931
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975277

Abstract:
Summary Responses toward preoperative chemotherapy are heterogeneous in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma. Existing studies in the field focus heavily on the tumor microenvironment (TME), whereas little is known about the relationship between systemic immunity and chemotherapy response. In this study, we collect serum samples from patients with gastric adenocarcinoma before, on, and after preoperative chemotherapy and study their immune proteomics using an antibody-based proteomics panel. We also collect surgically resected tumor samples and incorporate multiple methods to assess their TME. We find that both local and systemic immune features are associated with treatment response. Preoperative chemotherapy induces a sophisticated systemic immune response indicated by dynamic serum immune proteomics. A pretreatment serum protein scoring system is established for response prediction. Together, these findings highlight the fundamental but largely underestimated role of systemic immunity in the treatment of gastric cancer, suggesting a patient stratification strategy based on pretreatment serum immune proteomics. Graphical abstract Highlights • Both local and systemic immune features are associated with chemotherapy response • Pretreatment serum immune proteomics can stratify patients • A pretreatment serum protein scoring system is established for response prediction Responses toward preoperative chemotherapy are heterogeneous in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma. Tang et al. report that both local and systemic immune features are involved in the treatment response of preoperative chemotherapy. They also establish a pretreatment serum protein scoring system for response prediction and patient stratification.
