Title: Elevated cfDNA after exercise is derived primarily from mature polymorphonuclear neutrophils, with a minor contribution of cardiomyocytes
Authors: Ori Fridlich, Ayelet Peretz, Ilana Fox-Fisher, Sheina Pyanzin, Ziv Dadon, Eilon Shcolnik, Ronen Sadeh, Gavriel Fialkoff, Israa Sharkia, Joshua Moss, Ludovica Arpinati, Shachar Nice, Christopher D. Nogiec, Samuel Terkper Ahuno, Rui Li, Eddie Taborda, Sonia Dunkelbarger, Zvi G. Fridlender, Paz Polak, Tommy Kaplan, Nir Friedman, Benjamin Glaser, Ruth Shemer, Naama Constantini, Yuval Dor
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101074
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313937

Abstract:
Summary Strenuous physical exercise causes a massive elevation in the concentration of circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA), which correlates with effort intensity and duration. The cellular sources and physiological drivers of this phenomenon are unknown. Using methylation patterns of cfDNA and associated histones, we show that cfDNA in exercise originates mostly in extramedullary polymorphonuclear neutrophils. Strikingly, cardiomyocyte cfDNA concentration increases after a marathon, consistent with elevated troponin levels and indicating low-level, delayed cardiac cell death. Physical impact, low oxygen levels, and elevated core body temperature contribute to neutrophil cfDNA release, while muscle contraction, increased heart rate, β-adrenergic signaling, or steroid treatment fail to cause elevation of cfDNA. Physical training reduces neutrophil cfDNA release after a standard exercise, revealing an inverse relationship between exercise-induced cfDNA release and training level. We speculate that the release of cfDNA from neutrophils in exercise relates to the activation of neutrophils in the context of exercise-induced muscle damage. Graphical abstract Highlights • The major source of elevated cfDNA in exercise is mature polymorphonuclear neutrophils • Physical impact and elevated core body temperature contribute to cfDNA elevation • cfDNA elevation has an inverse relationship to individual training level • A minor contribution of cardiomyocyte-derived cfDNA after extreme exercise Fridlich et al. use liquid biopsies based on cell-free DNA (cfDNA) methylation and chromatin patterns to assess the origins of the massive elevation of cfDNA concentration seen after exercise. They identify polymorphonuclear neutrophils as the main source of cfDNA, with a minor contribution of cardiomyocyte DNA indicating cardiac cell death after extreme exercise. The key physiological driver of the process appears to be physical impact.
