Title: Comparative Analysis of Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica Serovar Thompson Isolates associated with Outbreaks Using PFGE and wgMLST
Authors: Youngho Koh, Yunyoung Bae, Min-Jung Lee, Yu-Si Lee, Dong-Hyun Kang, Soon Han Kim
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Microbiology and Biotechnology
DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2210.10010
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9843761

Abstract:
The strains associated with foodborne Salmonella enterica Thompson outbreaks in Korea have not been identified. Therefore, we characterized S . Thompson strains isolated from chocolate cakes linked to foodborne outbreaks in Korea. A total of 56 strains were isolated from preserved cake products, products in the supply chain distribution, the manufacturer’s apparatus, and egg white liquid products used for cream preparation. Subsequently, serological typing, pathogenic gene-targeted polymerase chain reaction (PCR), pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), and whole-genome multi-locus sequence typing (wgMLST) were performed to characterize these isolates. The antigen formula of all isolates was 7:k:1,5, namely Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica Serovar Thompson. All 56 isolates harbored invA , his , hin , and stn , and were negative for sefA and spvC based on gene-targeted PCR analyses. Based on PFGE results, these isolates were classified into one group based on the same SP6X01.011 pattern with 100% similarity. We selected 19 strains based on the region and sample type, which were subjected to wgMLST. Although the examined strains showed 100% similarity, they were classified into seven clusters based on allelic differences. According to our findings, the cause of these outbreaks was chocolate cake manufactured with egg white liquid contaminated with the same Salmonella Thompson. Additionally, comparative analysis of wgMLST on domestic isolates of S . Thompson from the three outbreaks showed genetic similarities of over 99.6%. Based on the results, the PFGE and wgMLST combination can provide highly resolved phylogeny and reliable evidence during Salmonella outbreak investigations.
