Title: Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes promote murine skin wound healing by neutrophil and macrophage modulations revealed by single-cell RNA sequencing
Authors: Yuanyuan Liu, Mingwang Zhang, Yong Liao, Hongbo Chen, Dandan Su, Yuandong Tao, Jiangbo Li, Kai Luo, Lihua Wu, Xingyue Zhang, Rongya Yang
Year: 2023
Venue: Frontiers in Immunology
DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1142088
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10044346

Abstract:
Introduction Full-thickness skin wound healing remains a serious undertaking for patients. While stem cell-derived exosomes have been proposed as a potential therapeutic approach, the underlying mechanism of action has yet to be fully elucidated. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of exosomes derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hucMSC-Exosomes) on the single-cell transcriptome of neutrophils and macrophages in the context of wound healing. Methods Utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing, the transcriptomic diversity of neutrophils and macrophages was analyzed in order to predict the cellular fate of these immune cells under the influence of hucMSC-Exosomes and to identify alterations of ligand-receptor interactions that may influence the wound microenvironment. The validity of the findings obtained from this analysis was subsequently corroborated by immunofluorescence, ELISA, and qRT-PCR. Neutrophil origins were characterized based on RNA velocity profiles. Results The expression of RETNLG and SLC2A3 was associated with migrating neutrophils, while BCL2A1B was linked to proliferating neutrophils. The hucMSC-Exosomes group exhibited significantly higher levels of M1 macrophages (215 vs 76, p < 0.00001), M2 macrophages (1231 vs 670, p < 0.00001), and neutrophils (930 vs 157, p < 0.00001) when compared to control group. Additionally, it was observed that hucMSC-Exosomes elicit alterations in the differentiation trajectories of macrophages towards more anti-inflammatory phenotypes, concomitant with changes in ligand-receptor interactions, thereby facilitating healing. Discussion This study has revealed the transcriptomic heterogeneity of neutrophils and macrophages in the context of skin wound repair following hucMSC-Exosomes interventions, providing a deeper understanding of cellular responses to hucMSC-Exosomes, a rising target of wound healing intervention.
