Title: Integrated single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing analysis identifies a cancer-associated fibroblast-related gene signature for predicting survival and therapy in gastric cancer
Authors: Zhiyang Zhou, Sixuan Guo, Shuhui Lai, Tao Wang, Yao Du, Junping Deng, Shun Zhang, Ge Gao, Jiangnan Zhang
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Cancer
DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-10332-w
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887891

Abstract:
As the dominant component of the tumor microenvironment, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), play a vital role in tumor progression. An increasing number of studies have confirmed that CAFs are involved in almost every aspect of tumors including tumorigenesis, metabolism, invasion, metastasis and drug resistance, and CAFs provide an attractive therapeutic target. This study aimed to explore the feature genes of CAFs for potential therapeutic targets and reliable prediction of prognosis in patients with gastric cancer (GC). Bioinformatic analysis was utilized to identify the feature genes of CAFs in GC by performing an integrated analysis of single-cell and transcriptome RNA sequencing using R software. Based on these feature genes, a CAF-related gene signature was constructed for prognostic prediction by LASSO. Simultaneously, survival analysis and nomogram were performed to validate the prognostic predictive value of this gene signature, and qRT–PCR and immunohistochemical staining verified the expression of the feature genes of CAFs. In addition, small molecular drugs for gene therapy of CAF-related gene signatures in GC patients were identified using the connectivity map (CMAP) database. A combination of nine CAF-related genes was constructed to characterize the prognosis of GC, and the prognostic potential and differential expression of the gene signature were initially validated. Additionally, three small molecular drugs were deduced to have anticancer properties on GC progression. By integrating single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing analyses, a novel gene signature of CAFs was constructed. The results provide a positive impact on future research and clinical studies involving CAFs for GC. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12885-022-10332-w.
