Title: Body proportions in patients with Turner syndrome on growth hormone treatment
Authors: Aslı Derya KARDELEN, Mine ŞÜKÜR, Esin Karakılıç ÖZTURAN, Ayşe Pınar ÖZTÜRK, Şükran POYRAZOĞLU, Firdevs BAŞ, Feyza DARENDELİLER
Year: 2023
Venue: Turkish Journal of Medical Sciences
DOI: 10.55730/1300-0144.5612
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10388058

Abstract:
Background In this cross-sectional study, we aimed to evaluate auxological measurements and detailed body proportions of recombinant human growth hormone (GH)-treated patients with Turner syndrome (TS) and compare them with a group of healthy females. Materials and methods We evaluated 42 patients with TS who received GH treatment and 20 healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements were taken and target height, body mass index (BMI), arm span-height difference, extremity-to-trunk ratio, and Manouvrier’s skelic index were calculated. Results The median (min–max) age of the patients at the time of evaluation was 13.6 (4.3–20.7) years, and the control group was 12.9 (3.8–23.7) years. Height, sitting height, and arm span of TS patients were significantly lower than those of the control group. Sitting height/height ratio (SHR) was in normal ranges in both groups and BMI was significantly higher in TS patients when compared to the control group. According to Manouvrier’s skelic index, TS patients had shorter legs than the control group (p = 0.001). The extremity-trunk ratio was significantly decreased in TS patients compared to healthy controls (p < 0.001). There was no significant difference between the karyotype groups in terms of these indexes. Conclusion TS patients had short stature, increased BMI and waist circumference, normal head circumference, and decreased extremity-trunk ratio. Sitting height and leg length were short; however, the SHR standard deviation score (SDS) was in the normal range. Despite being treated with GH, TS patients had disproportionate short stature. The disproportion in TS patients was similar to short-stature homeobox-containing gene (SHOX) deficiency, which is considered to be SHOX haploinsufficiency in the etiopathogenesis of short stature.
