Title: A Case Report of Monkeypox in an Adult Patient from Italy: Clinical and Dermoscopic Manifestations, Diagnosis and Management
Authors: Ilaria Proietti, Paolo Emilio Santoro, Nevena Skroza, Tiziana Tieghi, Nicoletta Bernardini, Ersilia Tolino, Agnieszka Ewa Dybala, Antonio Di Guardo, Alessandra Rallo, Marco Di Fraia, Maria Francesca Rossi, Martina Vitiello, Umberto Moscato, Giovanni Pellacani, Miriam Lichtner, Concetta Potenza
Year: 2022
Venue: Vaccines
DOI: 10.3390/vaccines10111903
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9694441

Abstract:
Monkeypox infection is an emerging problem and a new challenge for modern medicine. With an increasing number of new cases worldwide, new data regarding the clinical manifestations, characteristics of the patients, risk factors and treatment options are coming to light. Knowing more about the disease will allow to elaborate new helpful methods to facilitate its diagnosis. Special attention should be paid to the careful dermatologic and dermoscopic examination of the patient. The analysis of available data also suggests possible strategies for the prevention of Monkeypox virus spread; the vaccine against Smallpox seems to be an effective solution. This case report describes the diagnostic approach and management of a non-vaccinated adult patient with several risk factors and a history of sexually transmitted disease. The patient had no history of travel abroad. Even though a clinical diagnose of Monkeypox can be challenging due to its similarities with skin rashes caused by other Orthopoxviral infections, there are fine differences between the rashes which can be helpful in their differentiation, although laboratory analysis is required for a definitive identification. A careful study of the characteristics of the rash, such as diameter, its presence on palms and soles and its evolution in time, provided important clues for the diagnosis of Monkeypox infection. The lack of vaccinations in the history of the patient was another crucial finding in the diagnostic process.
