Title: Evaluation of customized cobalt-chromium abutments fabricated with different manufacturing process versus titanium stock abutments on the marginal misfit -An in vitro study
Authors: Writuraj Sutradhar, Sunil Kumar Mishra, Ramesh Chowdhary
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_381_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9416951

Abstract:
Aim: Accurate fit of the abutment to the implant is required for the uniform load distribution throughout the assembly. The study aims to compare the marginal misfit of titanium stock abutments with the cobalt-chromium (CoCr) customized abutments fabricated with the different manufacturing processes in internal hex implant-abutment connection using an appropriate scanning technique. Setting and Design: In vitro comparative study. Materials and Methods: A total of 40 abutments were included in the study. Ten titanium stock abutments were used as control (Group CN) and 30 CoCr abutments were fabricated and taken as the test group. Stock abutments were scanned and from obtained images test group abutments were fabricated as follows: Ten cast abutments (Group CA), 10 sintered abutments (Group SA), and 10 milled abutments (Group MA). Endosseous implanst having internal hex connections were matched with 10 stock abutments and 30 customized CoCr abutments. Implants were mounted in a clear epoxy resin block and the abutments were then fitted onto the implants with a torque of 30Ncm. The marginal discrepancy at implant-abutment connections was measured with confocal laser scanning microscope. Statistical Analysis Used: One-way ANOVA and Tukey's post hoc test was done for statistical analysis. Results: One-way ANOVA revealed a significant difference in marginal misfit of abutments. The mean marginal misfit was lowest for stock abutments (0.35 ± 0.009 μm). Among the customized abutments, the mean marginal misfit was highest for cast abutments (2.44 ± 0.445 μm) followed by sintered abutments (1.67 ± 0.232 μm) and least for milled abutments (0.65 ± 0.041 μm). A significant difference was found in marginal misfit with cast abutments and sintered abutments when compared to stock abutments ( P < 0.001). The difference in marginal misfit was insignificant between stock abutments and milled abutments ( P = 0.052). Conclusion: Difference in marginal misfit exists between the titanium stock abutments and customized CoCr abutments. Among the customized abutments, milled CoCr abutments have the least marginal discrepancy and cast CoCr abutments have a maximum marginal discrepancy. Milled CoCr abutments can be used as an alternative to titanium stock abutments.
