Title: Psychosocial Challenges of the Coronavirus Disease-2019 Pandemic Among Frontline Health Care Providers and Their Coping Mechanisms at Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, Southwestern Uganda
Authors: Ivan Mugisha Taremwa, Scholastic Ashaba, Barbara Rita K Naggayi, Badru Kayongo, Christine Nimwesiga, Carlrona Ayebazibwe, Manasseh Tumuhimbse, John Frank
Year: 2023
Venue: Psychology Research and Behavior Management
DOI: 10.2147/PRBM.S399687
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974731

Abstract:
Background As a novel global health pandemic, Coronavirus Disease-2019 (COVID-2019) has posed various challenges to frontline healthcare providers (FHCPs). This study explored the social and psychological challenges of COVID-19 to the FHCPs at Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, southwestern Uganda. Methods This was a cross-sectional study with a qualitative approach. Participants were purposively selected, consented, and interviewed. Interviews were audio-recorded and transcribed. Data were entered into NVivo 10 software and analyzed using a thematic analysis approach. Results Fourteen FHCPs with diverse roles, including 8 men, were interviewed. Participants’ median age was 38 years (range: 26–51 years) and eleven of them were married. The subjects’ experiences were explored in relation to perceived social and psychological challenges of working during the COVID-19 pandemic, and coping mechanisms in the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The social challenges identified were burnout, domestic violence, and a financially constrained environment. A further, psychological challenge was anxiety, as well as fear and distress. FHCPs responded with a variety of coping mechanisms, including situational acceptance, religious coping, coping through emotional support of others, and bulk purchase of supply-constrained basic necessities. Conclusion FHCPs experienced numerous social and psychological challenges, which negatively affected their quality of life amidst a wavering pandemic. As the pandemic rages on, creative and low-cost psychosocial interventions for FHCPs are needed, possibly including more formal peer support, and an improved flow of information about ongoing infectious disease control interventions, so FHCPs feel more knowledgeable about what is ahead.
