Title: New Developments in the Treatment of Schizophrenia: An Expert Roundtable
Authors: Joshua T Kantrowitz, Christoph U Correll, Rakesh Jain, Andrew J Cutler
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Neuropsychopharmacology
DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyad011
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229849

Abstract:
Abstract Background Schizophrenia is a disabling disorder that profoundly affects functioning and quality of life. While available antipsychotics have improved outcomes for patients with schizophrenia, they are relatively ineffective for negative and cognitive symptoms and are associated with a range of troublesome side effects. A significant unmet medical need for more effective and better-tolerated therapies remains. Methods A roundtable consisting of 4 experts in the treatment of patients with schizophrenia convened to discuss the current treatment landscape, unmet needs from patient and societal perspectives, and the potential of emerging therapies with novel mechanisms of action (MOAs). Results Key areas of unmet need include optimal implementation of available treatments, effective treatment of negative and cognitive symptoms, improvements in medication adherence, novel MOAs, avoidance of postsynaptic dopamine blockade–related adverse effects, and individualized approaches to treatment. With the possible exception of clozapine, all currently available antipsychotics primarily act by blocking dopamine D 2 receptors. Agents with novel MOAs are urgently needed to effectively target the full range of symptoms in schizophrenia and facilitate an individualized treatment approach. Discussion focused on promising novel MOAs that have demonstrated potential in phase 2 and 3 trials include muscarinic receptor agonism, trace amine-associated receptor 1 agonism, serotonin receptor antagonism/inverse agonism, and glutamatergic modulation. Conclusions Results from early clinical trials of agents with novel MOAs are encouraging, particularly for muscarinic and trace amine-associated receptor 1 agonists. These agents offer renewed hope for meaningful improvement in the management of patients with schizophrenia.
