Title: Assessment of US Federal Funding of Incarceration-Related Research, 1985 to 2022
Authors: Samantha J. Boch, Aaron W. Murnan, Jordan F. Pollard, Nichole L. Nidey, Rose Y. Hardy, Iheoma U. Iruka
Year: 2023
Venue: JAMA Network Open
DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.0803
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9972190

Abstract:
Key Points Question How often have incarceration-related projects been funded at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), US Department of Justice (DOJ), and National Science Foundation (NSF)? Findings This cross-sectional study found that a very low number of projects about incarceration have historically been funded at the NIH, DOJ, and NSF. Meaning These findings suggest that federal funding for incarceration-related health research is inadequate, considering the size, churn, and socioeconomic consequences of the US criminal legal system. This cross-sectional study compares the number of incarceration-related projects funded at the National Institutes of Health, US Department of Justice, and National Science Foundation compared with other social and behavioral risk–related projects. Importance The US leads the world in the raw number of incarcerated persons as well as the rate of incarceration, with detrimental effects on individual-, family-, community-, and population-level health; as such, federal research has a critical role in documenting and addressing the health-related impacts of the US criminal legal system. How often incarceration-related research is funded at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Science Foundation (NSF), and US Department of Justice (DOJ) levels has a direct association with the public attention given to mass incarceration as well as the efficacy of strategies to mitigate negative effects and poor health related to incarceration. Objective To understand how many incarceration-related projects have been funded at the NIH, NSF, and DOJ. Design, Setting, and Participants This cross-sectional study used public historical project archives to search for relevant incarceration-related keywords (eg, incarceration , prison , parole ) since January 1, 1985 (NIH and NSF), and since January 1, 2008 (DOJ). Quotations and Boolean operator logic were used. All searches and counts were conducted and double verified by 2 coauthors between December 12 and 17, 2022. Main Outcomes and Measures Number and prevalence of funded projects related to incarceration and prison keywords. Results The term incarceration resulted in 3540 of 3 234 159 total project awards (0.11%) and prisoner -related terms resulted in 11 455 total project awards (0.35%) across the 3 federal agencies since 1985. Nearly a tenth of all projects funded at NIH since 1985 related to education (256 584 [9.62%]) compared with only 3373 projects (0.13%) that related to criminal legal or criminal justice or correctional system and 18 projects (0.0007%) that related to incarcerated parents . Only 1857 (0.07%) of all NIH-funded projects have been funded related to racism since 1985. Conclusions and Relevance This cross-sectional study found that a very low number of projects about incarceration have historically been funded at the NIH, DOJ, and NSF. These findings reflect a dearth of federally funded studies investigating the effects of mass incarceration or intervention strategies to mitigate adverse effects. Given the consequences of the criminal legal system, it is undoubtedly time for researchers, and our nation, to invest more resources into studying whether this system should be maintained, the intergenerational effects of mass incarceration, and strategies to best mitigate its impact on public health.
