Title: Dolutegravir plus lamivudine for maintenance of HIV viral suppression in adults with and without historical resistance to lamivudine: 48-week results of a non-randomized, pilot clinical trial (ART-PRO)
Authors: Rosa De Miguel, David Rial-Crestelo, Lourdes Dominguez-Dominguez, Rocío Montejano, Andrés Esteban-Cantos, Paula Aranguren-Rivas, Natalia Stella-Ascariz, Otilia Bisbal, Laura Bermejo-Plaza, Mónica Garcia-Alvarez, Belén Alejos, Asunción Hernando, Mireia Santacreu-Guerrero, Julen Cadiñanos, Mario Mayoral, Juan Miguel Castro, Victoria Moreno, Luz Martin-Carbonero, Rafael Delgado, Rafael Rubio, Federico Pulido, José Ramón Arribas
Year: 2020
Venue: EBioMedicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2020.102779
Paper ID: pmc_PMC7225620

Abstract:
Background We investigated the efficacy of a switch to dolutegravir plus lamivudine in aviremic individuals without evidence of persistent lamivudine resistance-associated mutations in baseline proviral DNA population sequencing. Methods Open-label, single-arm, 48-week pilot trial. HIV-1 infected adults, naïve to integrase inhibitors, with CD4+ above 350 cell/μL and fewer than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies per mL the year prior to study entry switched to dolutegravir plus lamivudine. Participants were excluded if baseline proviral DNA population genotyping detected lamivudine resistance-associated mutations. To detect resistance minority variants, proviral DNA next-generation sequencing was retrospectively performed from baseline samples. Primary efficacy endpoint was proportion of participants with fewer than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies per mL at week 48. Safety and tolerability outcomes were incidence of adverse events and treatment discontinuations. ART-PRO is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03539224 . Findings 41 participants switched to dolutegravir plus lamivudine, 21 with lamivudine resistance mutations in historical plasma genotypes. Baseline next-generation sequencing detected lamivudine resistance mutations (M184V/I and/or K65R/E/N) over a 5% threshold in 15/21 (71·4%) and 3/20 (15%) of participants with and without history of lamivudine resistance, respectively. At week 48, 92·7% of participants (38/41) had fewer than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies per mL. There were no cases of virologic failure. Three participants with historical lamivudine resistance were prematurely discontinued from the study (2 protocol violations, one adverse event). Ten participants (4 in the group with historical lamivudine resistance) had a transient viral rebound, all resuppressed on dolutegravir plus lamivudine. There were 28 drug-related adverse events, only one leading to discontinuation. Interpretation In this pilot trial, dolutegravir plus lamivudine was effective in maintaining virologic control despite past historical lamivudine resistance and presence of archived lamivudine resistance-associated mutations detected by next generation sequencing. Further studies are needed to confirm our results. Funding Fondo de Investigaciones Sanitarias, Instituto de Salud Carlos III PI16/00837-PI16/00678.
