Title: 3D Printing and processing of miniaturized transducers with near-pristine piezoelectric ceramics for localized cavitation
Authors: Haotian Lu, Huachen Cui, Gengxi Lu, Laiming Jiang, Ryan Hensleigh, Yushun Zeng, Adnan Rayes, Mohanchandra K. Panduranga, Megha Acharya, Zhen Wang, Andrei Irimia, Felix Wu, Gregory P. Carman, José M. Morales, Seth Putterman, Lane W. Martin, Qifa Zhou, Xiaoyu (Rayne) Zheng
Year: 2023
Venue: Nature Communications
DOI: 10.1038/s41467-023-37335-w
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140030

Abstract:
The performance of ultrasonic transducers is largely determined by the piezoelectric properties and geometries of their active elements. Due to the brittle nature of piezoceramics, existing processing tools for piezoelectric elements only achieve simple geometries, including flat disks, cylinders, cubes and rings. While advances in additive manufacturing give rise to free-form fabrication of piezoceramics, the resultant transducers suffer from high porosity, weak piezoelectric responses, and limited geometrical flexibility. We introduce optimized piezoceramic printing and processing strategies to produce highly responsive piezoelectric microtransducers that operate at ultrasonic frequencies. The 3D printed dense piezoelectric elements achieve high piezoelectric coefficients and complex architectures. The resulting piezoelectric charge constant, d 33 , and coupling factor, k t , of the 3D printed piezoceramic reach 583 pC/N and 0.57, approaching the properties of pristine ceramics. The integrated printing of transducer packaging materials and 3D printed piezoceramics with microarchitectures create opportunities for miniaturized piezoelectric ultrasound transducers capable of acoustic focusing and localized cavitation within millimeter-sized channels, leading to miniaturized ultrasonic devices that enable a wide range of biomedical applications. Despite advances in additive manufacturing of piezoceramics, resultant transducers generally suffer from high porosity, weak piezoelectric responses, and limited geometry. Here, authors report the design and printing of fully packaged freeform ultrasonic transducers capable of traveling inside mm-sized channels and deliver localized high ultrasound energy.
