Title: Clinical features of early-onset pediatric traumatic glaucoma and predictive factors for the need of early glaucoma surgery
Authors: Chintan Shah, Pradhnya Sen, Salma Tabani, Kailash Prasad, Parimal Peeush, Elesh Jain
Year: 2023
Venue: Indian Journal of Ophthalmology
DOI: 10.4103/IJO.IJO_2551_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229941

Abstract:
Purpose: To assess the clinical presentation of pediatric patients having early traumatic glaucoma and to analyze early predictors for the need of filtration surgery. Methods: Patients with early traumatic glaucoma after close globe injury (CGI) from January 2014 to December 2020 were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical features, treatment provided (medical and surgical), and visual outcomes were documented. Patients were divided into two groups based on the management required: group A- trabeculectomy and group B- medication + minor surgery. Results: A total of 85 patients were studied after applying the necessary inclusion and exclusion criteria. Out of these, 46 underwent trabeculectomy for the control of intraocular pressure (IOP) and the remaining 39 were managed with antiglaucoma medications. Significant male predominance of 9.6:1 was observed. Patients presented to the hospital after a mean duration of 8.5 days posttrauma. Wooden objects were most commonly responsible for trauma. Mean best corrected visual acuity at presentation was 1.91 log of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR). Mean IOP at presentation was 40 mmHg. The common anterior segment finding were severe anterior chamber (AC) reaction (63.5%), followed by angle recession (56.4%). Severe AC reaction ( P = 0.0001) and corneal microcystic edema ( P = 0.04) were significant predictive factors for early need of trabeculectomy. Conclusion: Need of trabeculectomy was higher in patients with severe AC reaction and corneal microcystic edema. The threshold to perform trabeculectomy should be lower, as glaucoma is often relentless, severe, and may result in irreversible vision loss.
