Title: Examination of Different Sporidium Numbers of Ustilago maydis Infection on Two Hungarian Sweet Corn Hybrids’ Characteristics at Vegetative and Generative Stages
Authors: Lóránt Szőke, Makoena Joyce Moloi, Dávid Kaczur, László Radócz, Brigitta Tóth
Year: 2023
Venue: Life
DOI: 10.3390/life13020433
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967947

Abstract:
Corn smut is one of the major diseases in corn production. The cob infection causes high economic and quality loss. This research investigated the effects of three different concentrations of corn smut infection (2500, 5000, and 10,000 sporidia/mL) on two Hungarian sweet corn hybrids (Desszert 73 and Noa). Plants were infected at the vegetative (V4–V5) and the generative (V7) stages. The effects of the corn smut infection were evaluated at 7 and 14 days after the pathogen infection (DAPI) at vegetative and at 21 DAPI at generative stages. The photosynthetic pigments (relative chlorophyll, chlorophyll- a and b , and carotenoids), malondialdehyde (MDA), and proline concentration, activities of the antioxidant enzymes [ascorbate peroxidase (APX), guaiacol peroxidase (POX), and superoxide dismutase (SOD)], morphological characteristics (plant height, stem and cob diameter, cob length, cob and kernel weights), mineral contents (Al, B, Ca, Cr, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, P, Pb, S, Sr, and Zn), and quality parameters (dry matter, fiber, fat, ash, nitrogen, and protein) were measured. At both sampling times (7 and 14 DAPI) in both hybrids, the corn smut infection reduced the photosynthetic pigments (relative chlorophyll, chlorophylls- a , and b , and carotenoids) irrespective of the spore concentration. Under the same conditions, the MDA and proline contents, as well as the activities of APX, POX, and SOD increased at both sampling times. The negative effects of the corn smut infection were also observed at the generative stage. Only the 10,000 sporidia/mL of corn smut caused symptoms (tumor growth) on the cobs of both hybrids at 21 DAPI. Similarly, this treatment impacted adversely the cob characteristics (reduced cob length, kernel weight, and 100 grains fresh and dry weight) for both hybrids. In addition, crude fat and protein content, Mg, and Mn concentration of grains also decreased in both hybrids while the concentration of Al and Ca increased. Based on these results, the sweet corn hybrids were more susceptible to corn smut at the vegetative stage than at the generative stage.
