Title: Effects of surface modification techniques on zirconia substrates and their effect on bonding to dual cure resin cement - An in- vitro study
Authors: K. G. Mohit, Tabrez Amin Lakha, Aishwarya Chinchwade, Qamri A. Batul, Mohsin Shaikh, Supriya M. Kheur
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_298_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9132501

Abstract:
Aim: This study aims to evaluate the effect of different surface treatments of monolithic zirconia on the bond strength of resin to zirconia and, to explore alternative methods to improve this bonding. Settings and Design: In-Vitro study. Materials and Methods: Fifty rectangular sintered blocks of Yttria-stabilized Tetragonal Zirconia Polycrystal ceramics of dimensions were milled and sintered. These specimens were further divided into five groups (control, air abrasion, etching with primer application, air abrasion with primer application and novel glass infiltrated zirconia surface group), containing 10 samples each. The specimens were analyzed for surface roughness, tensile bond strength to resin cements, and adhesive and cohesive mode of failures. Statistical Analysis Used: ANOVA and Post-Hoc Tukey test was perform to evaluate the significant differences in the mean values of the groups. Results: Air-abraded samples showed the highest surface roughness (4.95 ± 0.65) ( P < 0.05). The group with air abrasion followed by primer application showed the highest tensile bond strength (7.12 ± 0.69) ( P < 0.05). The lowest surface roughness (0.638 ± 0.8093) and tensile bond strength (2.03 ± 0.58) was seen in samples that were subjected to etchant treatment followed by application of methacryloyloxydecyl di-hydrogen phosphate (MDP) primer. The changes in comparison to the control group were statistically insignificant ( P > 0.05). Except Groups A (control) and C (etchant followed by primer), all other groups showed a cohesive failure. Conclusion: Air abrasion of the zirconia surface with 50 μm alumina particles increases the surface roughness without damaging the surface. Air abrasion followed by MDP primer application is the recommended method of surface treatment to achieve superior bonding. Glass infiltration also showed promising results in terms of tensile bond strength.
