Title: An Interleukin-15 Superagonist Enables Antitumor Efficacy of Natural Killer Cells Against All Molecular Variants of SCLC
Authors: Kristen Fousek, Lucas A. Horn, Haiyan Qin, Madeline Dahut, Masafumi Iida, Dan Yacubovich, Duane H. Hamilton, Anish Thomas, Jeffrey Schlom, Claudia Palena
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of thoracic oncology : official publication of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer
DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2022.11.008
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974560

Abstract:
Introduction: SCLC is a highly aggressive tumor with a 5-year survival rate of less than 6%. A heterogeneous disease, SCLC is classified into four subtypes that include tumors with neuroendocrine and non-neuroendocrine features. Immune checkpoint blockade therapy has been recently added for the frontline treatment of SCLC; immune checkpoint blockade, however, has only led to modest clinical improvements. The lack of clinical benefit in a cancer type known to have a high tumor mutational burden has been attributed to poor T-cell infiltration and low expression of MHC-class I in most SCLC tumors. In an attempt to devise a more effective immunotherapeutic regimen, this study investigated an alternate approach on the basis of the use of the clinical-stage interleukin-15 superagonist, N-803. Methods: Preclinical models of SCLC spanning all molecular subtypes were used to evaluate the susceptibility of SCLC to natural killer (NK)-mediated lysis in vitro, including NK cells activated by N-803. Antitumor activity of N-803 was evaluated in vivo with a xenograft model of SCLC. Results: In vitro and in vivo data revealed differences in susceptibility of SCLC subtypes to lysis by NK cells and that NK cells activated by N-803 effectively lyse SCLC tumor cells across all variant subtypes, regardless of their expression of MHC-class I. Conclusions: These findings highlight the potential of a novel immune-based intervention using a cytokine-based therapeutic option for the treatment of SCLC. We hypothesize that N-803 may provide benefit to most patients with SCLC, including those with immunologically cold tumors lacking MHC expression.
