Title: Effects of Acupuncture upon cerebral hemodynamics in cerebral small vessel disease: A pilot study
Authors: Endy-Chun-hung Tang, Alexander-Yuk-lun Lau, David AU, Yanli Ju, Bonnie-Yin-Ka Lam, Adrian Wong, Lisa Au, Vincent-Chung-tong Mok
Year: 2023
Venue: Cerebral Circulation - Cognition and Behavior
DOI: 10.1016/j.cccb.2023.100168
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313857

Abstract:
Highlights • This pilot study examined how acupuncture may influence the cerebral hemodynamics in cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD). • Acupuncture may improve cerebral perfusion without affecting distal vascular resistance in established moderate to severe CSVD subjects. • Acupuncture may improve distal vascular resistance in subjects with no or insignificant CSVD. Background and aims Recent preclinical studies and meta-analysis of clinical trials suggested that acupuncture may improve cognition in cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD). We investigated the cerebral hemodynamics of acupuncture in subjects with CSVD and compared its impact upon the cerebral hemodynamics in normal elderly subjects Methods 10 subjects with CSVD (CSVD group) and 10 aged-matched control subjects who had no or insignificant CSVD (control group) were recruited. A single session of acupuncture was applied for 30 min in both groups. We assessed the effect of our acupuncture intervention on cerebral hemodynamics by transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD). Peak systolic velocity (PSV) and pulsatility index (PI) of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) were assessed Results We observed that PSV increased by a maximum of 39% at 20 min ( p <0.05), while there was no significant change in PI in the CSVD group during the acupuncture session. In the control group, although we observed no significant change in PSV during the acupuncture session, there was a significant decrease in PI by a maximum of 22% at 20 min ( p <0.05). No adverse events were reported during or after the procedure. Conclusion This study suggested that our acupuncture prescription was associated with an increase in cerebral blood flow in subjects with established moderate to severe CSVD yet without apparent impact on distal vascular resistance. While, in subjects with no or insignificant CSVD, it may reduce cerebral small vessel distal vascular resistance. A larger study is needed to confirm our findings.
