Title: Evaluation of calculation processes of apparent diffusion coefficient subtraction method (ASM) imaging
Authors: Majd Barham, Masahiro Kuroda, Yuuki Yoshimura, Kentaro Hamada, Abdullah Khasawneh, Kohei Sugimoto, Kohei Konishi, Nouha Tekiki, Irfan Sugianto, Babatunde O. Bamgbose, Hinata Ishizaka, Yudai Shimizu, Yuki Nakamitsu, Wlla E. Al-Hammad, Ryo Kamizaki, Akira Kurozumi, Toshi Matsushita, Seiichiro Ohno, Junichi Asaumi
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0282462
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9970062

Abstract:
A number of restricted diffusion (RD) imaging techniques, such as diffusion kurtosis (DK) imaging and Q space imaging, have been developed and proven to be useful for the diagnosis of diseases, including cerebral gliomas and cerebrovascular infarction. In particular, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) subtraction method (ASM) imaging has become available recently as a novel RD imaging technique. ASM is based on the difference between the ADC values in an image pair of two ADC maps, ADC basic (ADC b ) and ADC modify (ADC m ), which are created from diffusion-weighted images taken using short and long effective diffusion times, respectively. The present study aimed to assess the potential of different types of ASM imaging by comparing them with DK imaging which is the gold-standard RD imaging technique. In the present basic study using both polyethylene glycol phantom and cell-containing bio-phantom, three different types of ASM images were created using different calculation processes. ASM/A is an image calculated by dividing the absolute difference between ADC b and ADC m by ADC b several times. By contrast, ASM/S is an image created by dividing the absolute difference between ADC b and ADC m by the standard deviation of ADC b several times. As for positive ASM/A image (PASM/A), the positive image, which was resultant after subtracting ADC b from ADC m , was divided by ADC b several times. A comparison was made between the types of ASM and DK images. The results showed the same tendency between ASM/A in addition to both ASM/S and PASM/A. By increasing the number of divisions by ADC b from three to five times, ASM/A images transformed from DK-mimicking to more RD-sensitive images compared with DK images. These observations suggest that ASM/A images may prove useful for future clinical applications in RD imaging protocols for the diagnosis of diseases.
