Title: Complication Rate of Autologous Cartilage Microtia Reconstruction: A Systematic Review
Authors: Xiao Long, Nanze Yu, Jiuzuo Huang, Xiaojun Wang
Year: 2013
Venue: Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Global Open
DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0b013e3182aa8784
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4174059

Abstract:
Background: Autologous cartilage has been widely accepted as the frame material of ear reconstruction for patients with microtia. Although rare, there are multiple complications related with the surgical reconstruction techniques. The authors performed a systematic review of the English literature of microtia reconstruction to determine significant surgical factors that are predictors of postoperative complications. Methods: A PubMed search using the terms “ear reconstruction” and “microtia” was conducted. Articles were screened using predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Data collected included patient characteristics, surgical techniques, the incidence of all kinds of complications, and the specific postoperative morbidity. Patient cohorts were pooled, and the incidence of complications was calculated. Significant predictors such as the use of tissue expander, simultaneously mid-ear reconstruction, with/without skin graft, and different fascia coverage were analyzed by chi-square test. Result: Of 320 articles found, 60 met the inclusion criteria. Totally 9415 patients with microtia were analyzed in this review with 1525 cases with complications. The overall complication incidence is 16.2% in average with a range of 0–72.9%. There was no significant difference when comparing the overall complication rate between with/without preexpansion 2-stage and multiple-stage techniques or with/without mid-ear reconstruction simultaneously. Conclusion: Although there is little agreement in literature regarding risk factors for complications, the authors were able to demonstrate several significant predictors by systematically analyzing 60 articles. Improved knowledge of the incidence of different complications related with various surgical methods can help surgeons provide improved preoperative counseling and take measures to minimize the risk.
