Title: Effect of Prepartum Magnesium Butyrate Supplementation on Rumination Time, Milk Yield and Composition, and Blood Parameters in Dairy Cows
Authors: Hedvig Fébel, Joan Edwards, Ferenc Pajor, Viktor Jurkovich, Mikolt Bakony, Levente Kovács
Year: 2023
Venue: Veterinary Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/vetsci10040276
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142104

Abstract:
Simple Summary Prepartum magnesium butyrate (MgB) supplementation was given to dairy cows three weeks before parturition and lactational performance; inflammation-related protein levels, blood energy analytes, and rumination time were compared to Control cows. Milk samples were collected for the first 70 days of lactation, and various blood parameters and rumination activity were also monitored. The MgB-supplemented group yielded more milk compared to the Control during week 1, and had increased milk fat and protein levels over a longer duration of lactation. Blood energy analytes indicated that MgB supplementation had no effects on the negative energy balance that occurs often during the early lactation phase. Whilst no clinical disease was detected in either group of animals during the study, the MgB group was found to have a significantly lower milk somatic cell count and blood concentration of an inflammation-related protein. Rumination activity was greater in the MgB group relative to the Control group due to a depression in rumination activity being overcome. The basis of this is not clear, as feed intake could not be monitored in the current study. Abstract Background: Magnesium butyrate (MgB) supplementation of dairy cows during the three-week close-up period was tested for its effects on blood energy analytes, rumination time, inflammation, and lactation performance. Methods: Daily milk yield was recorded and weekly milk samples collected for the first 70 days of lactation from MgB supplemented (MgB, n = 34), and unsupplemented (Control, n = 31) multiparous Holstein-Friesian cows. During a period from week 3 to week 10 postpartum, blood samples were taken and analyzed for various parameters, and ruminant activity was measured. Results: The MgB group yielded 25.2% more milk than the Control during week 1, and had increased milk fat and protein concentrations over a longer duration. Somatic cell counts (SCC) were decreased in the MgB group independent of days in milk. No differences were observed between groups in terms of plasma non-esterified fatty acids, β-hydroxybutyrate, glucose, or blood iCa levels. The MgB group had lower haptoglobin (Hp) levels during lactation relative to the Control group. Time spent ruminating increased after calving with MgB due to a shorter post calving rumination delay relative to the Control group. Conclusions: Prepartum MgB supplementation improved lactation performance without affecting blood energy analytes. The basis by which MgB also improved rumination activity remains to be determined, as DMI could not be assessed. As MgB lowered SCC and Hp concentrations, it is speculated that MgB may help minimize postpartum inflammatory processes.
