Title: Taxonomic reclassification of Kaposi Sarcoma identifies disease entities with distinct immunopathogenesis
Authors: M. R. Openshaw, E. Gervasi, C. A. M. Fulgenzi, D. J. Pinato, A. Dalla Pria, M. Bower
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Translational Medicine
DOI: 10.1186/s12967-023-04130-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142155

Abstract:
Background The taxonomy of Kaposi Sarcoma (KS) is based on a classification system focused on the description of clinicopathological features of KS in geographically and clinically diverse populations. The classification includes classic, endemic, epidemic/HIV associated and iatrogenic KS, and KS in men who have sex with men (MSM). We assessed the medical relevance of the current classification of KS and sought clinically useful improvements in KS taxonomy. Methods We reviewed the demographic and clinicopathological features of 676 patients with KS, who were referred to the national centre for HIV oncology at Chelsea Westminster hospital between 2000 and 2021. Results Demographic differences between the different subtypes of KS exist as tautological findings of the current classification system. However, no definitive differences in clinicopathological, virological or immunological parameters at presentation could be demonstrated between the classic, endemic or MSM KS patients. Reclassifying patients as either immunosuppressed or non-immunosuppressed, showed that the immunosuppressed group had a significantly higher proportion of adverse disease features at presentation including visceral disease and extensive oral involvement, classified together as advanced disease (chi 2 P = 0.0012*) and disseminated skin involvement (chi 2 P < 0.0001*). Immunosuppressed patients had lower CD4 counts, higher CD8 counts and a trend towards higher HHV8 levels compared to non-immunosuppressed patients, however overall survival and disease specific (KS) survival was similar across groups. Conclusion The current system of KS classification does not reflect meaningful differences in clinicopathological presentation or disease pathogenesis. Reclassification of patients based on the presence or absence of immunosuppression is a more clinically meaningful system that may influence therapeutic approaches to KS. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12967-023-04130-6.
