Title: Evaluation of the effects of isoproterenol on arrhythmia recurrence following catheter ablation in patients with atrioventricular nodal re‐entrant tachycardia: A randomized controlled clinical trial
Authors: Neda Vahid Lotfabadi, Saeed Mehrabi, Alireza Heidari‐Bakavoli, Negar Morovatdar, Mohammad Tayyebi, Vafa Baradaran Rahimi
Year: 2023
Venue: Pharmacology Research & Perspectives
DOI: 10.1002/prp2.1068
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975462

Abstract:
Abstract We aimed to determine the effects of isoproterenol on arrhythmia recurrence in atrioventricular nodal re‐entrant tachycardia (AVNRT) patients treated with catheter ablation. The present randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted on AVNRT patients candidates for radiofrequency ablation (RFA). The patients were randomly assigned to receive isoproterenol (0.5–4 μg/min) or not (control group) for arrhythmia re‐induction after ablation. The results of the electrophysiological (EP) study, the ablation parameters, and the arrhythmia recurrence rate were recorded. We evaluated 206 patients (53 males and 153 females) with a mean (SD) age of 49.87 (15.5) years in two groups of isoproterenol ( n = 103) and control ( n = 103). No statistically significant difference was observed between the two studied groups in age, gender, EP study, and ablation parameters. The success rate of ablation was 100% in both groups. During ~16.5 months of follow‐up, one patient (1%) in the isoproterenol group and four patients (3.8%) in the control group experienced AVNRT recurrence (HR = 0.245; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.043–1.418; p = .173). Based on the Kaplan–Meier analysis, there was no significant difference in the incidence rate of arrhythmia recurrence during the follow‐up period between the two studied groups ( p = .129). Additionally, there were no significant differences between the arrhythmia's recurrence according to age, gender, junctional rhythm, type of AVNRT arrhythmia, and DAVN persistence after ablation. Although isoproterenol administration for arrhythmia re‐induction after ablation did not alleviate the treatment outcomes and arrhythmia recurrence following RFA in AVNRT patients, further studies with a larger sample size and a longer duration of follow‐up are necessary. According to the findings, the presence or absence of isoproterenol administration for arrhythmia re‐induction after ablation did not ameliorate the treatment outcomes and arrhythmia recurrence following radiofrequency ablation in atrioventricular nodal re‐entrant tachycardiapatients. However, further clinical trials with larger sample sizes and longer duration of follow‐up are necessary to confirm our findings.
