Title: Quantitative High Density EEG Brain Connectivity Evaluation in Parkinson’s Disease: The Phase Locking Value (PLV)
Authors: Lazzaro di Biase, Lorenzo Ricci, Maria Letizia Caminiti, Pasquale Maria Pecoraro, Simona Paola Carbone, Vincenzo Di Lazzaro
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12041450
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967371

Abstract:
Introduction: The present study explores brain connectivity in Parkinson’s disease (PD) and in age matched healthy controls (HC), using quantitative EEG analysis, at rest and during a motor tasks. We also evaluated the diagnostic performance of the phase locking value (PLV), a measure of functional connectivity, in differentiating PD patients from HCs. Methods: High-density, 64-channels, EEG data from 26 PD patients and 13 HC were analyzed. EEG signals were recorded at rest and during a motor task. Phase locking value (PLV), as a measure of functional connectivity, was evaluated for each group in a resting state and during a motor task for the following frequency bands: (i) delta: 2–4 Hz; (ii) theta: 5–7 Hz; (iii) alpha: 8–12 Hz; beta: 13–29 Hz; and gamma: 30–60 Hz. The diagnostic performance in PD vs. HC discrimination was evaluated. Results: Results showed no significant differences in PLV connectivity between the two groups during the resting state, but a higher PLV connectivity in the delta band during the motor task, in HC compared to PD. Comparing the resting state versus the motor task for each group, only HCs showed a higher PLV connectivity in the delta band during motor task. A ROC curve analysis for HC vs. PD discrimination, showed an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.75, a sensitivity of 100%, and a negative predictive value (NPV) of 100%. Conclusions: The present study evaluated the brain connectivity through quantitative EEG analysis in Parkinson’s disease versus healthy controls, showing a higher PLV connectivity in the delta band during the motor task, in HC compared to PD. This neurophysiology biomarkers showed the potentiality to be explored in future studies as a potential screening biomarker for PD patients.
