Title: Photoresponse of CVD grown crystalline quantum dot-embedded covalent organic framework thin film
Authors: Neha Chaki Roy, Tapanendu Kundu
Year: 2023
Venue: RSC Advances
DOI: 10.1039/d2ra06190b
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890657

Abstract:
Covalent organic frameworks (COFs) are a new family of novel 2D materials which are highly sought after for integration into future sensors and other devices for their highly porous structures and large surface areas. However, low-temperature large-area growth of these semiconductive materials with a clean surface for direct device applications is still a challenging task. To provide an on-chip photonic device, a COF366-Quantum dot (COF366-QDs) thin-film-based device fabricated by in situ chemical vapor deposition (CVD) is presented. The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) displays the formation of the periodic, crystalline and porous framework of the COF layer with mono-dispersed QDs of average particle size of ∼2.5–3 nm. The fabricated COF366-QD layer acts as a photoactive layer in the photonic device with an Au-COFQD-Au structure where a conduction path is formed between the metal electrodes through a network of COF layer with embedded QDs. The device shows photoactive response under 514 nm visible light with a very low dark current of 4.36 × 10 −11 A with a minimum light detection capability of 160 nW and a responsivity of ∼3.42 A W −1 . The photonic device was highly stable for successive switching cycles with very low attenuation. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a Quantum dot embedded COF366 thin-film by chemical vapor deposition. The proposed interfacing of COF366-QD thin-films on silicon substrate using in situ low-temperature CVD technique can be highly valuable for the development of transfer-free, clean, and low-cost preparation of industrial-scale organic electronics, optoelectronic device applications, and lab-on-chip based technologies for a wide range of future applications. Covalent organic frameworks (COFs) are a new family of novel 2D materials which are highly sought after for integration into future sensors and other devices for their highly porous structures and large surface areas.
