Title: An ensemble of interconverting conformations of the elemental paused transcription complex creates regulatory options
Authors: Jin Young Kang, Tatiana V. Mishanina, Yu Bao, James Chen, Eliza Llewellyn, James Liu, Seth A. Darst, Robert Landick
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215945120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974457

Abstract:
Significance Transcriptional pausing provides a hub for gene regulation. Pausing provides a timing mechanism to coordinate regulatory interactions, cotranscriptional RNA folding and protein synthesis, and stop signals for transcriptional termination. Cellular RNA polymerases (RNAPs) are complex, with multiple mobile modules shifting positions to control its catalytic activity and pause RNAP in response to DNA-encoded pause signals. Understanding how these modules move to enable pausing is crucial for a mechanistic understanding of gene regulation. Our results clarify the picture significantly by defining multiple states among which paused RNAP partitions in response to different pause signals. This work contributes to an emerging theme wherein multiple interconverting states of the RNAP proceed through a pathway (e.g., initiation or pausing), providing multiple opportunities for regulation. Transcriptional pausing underpins the regulation of cellular RNA synthesis, but its mechanism remains incompletely understood. Sequence-specific interactions of DNA and RNA with the dynamic, multidomain RNA polymerase (RNAP) trigger reversible conformational changes at pause sites that temporarily interrupt the nucleotide addition cycle. These interactions initially rearrange the elongation complex (EC) into an elemental paused EC (ePEC). ePECs can form longer-lived PECs by further rearrangements or interactions of diffusible regulators. For both bacterial and mammalian RNAPs, a half-translocated state in which the next DNA template base fails to load into the active site appears central to the ePEC. Some RNAPs also swivel interconnected modules that may stabilize the ePEC. However, it is unclear whether swiveling and half-translocation are requisite features of a single ePEC state or if multiple ePEC states exist. Here, we use cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) analysis of ePECs with different RNA–DNA sequences combined with biochemical probes of ePEC structure to define an interconverting ensemble of ePEC states. ePECs occupy either pre- or half-translocated states but do not always swivel, indicating that difficulty in forming the posttranslocated state at certain RNA–DNA sequences may be the essence of the ePEC. The existence of multiple ePEC conformations has broad implications for transcriptional regulation.
