Title: Real-time monitoring of biofilm growth identifies andrographolide as a potent antifungal compound eradicating Candida biofilms
Authors: Miglė Žiemytė, Juan C. Rodríguez-Díaz, María P. Ventero-Martín, Alex Mira, María D. Ferrer
Year: 2023
Venue: Biofilm
DOI: 10.1016/j.bioflm.2023.100134
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313501

Abstract:
Candida species cause life-threatening infections with high morbidity and mortality rates and their resistance to conventional therapy is closely linked to biofilm formation. Thus, the development of new approaches to study Candida biofilms and the identification of novel therapeutic strategies could yield improved clinical outcomes. In the current study, we have set up an impedance-based in vitro system to study Candida spp . biofilms in real-time and to evaluate their sensitivity to two conventional antifungal groups used in clinical practice - azoles and echinocandins. Both fluconazole and voriconazole were unable to inhibit biofilm formation in most strains tested, while echinocandins showed biofilm inhibitory capacity at relatively low concentrations (starting from 0.625 mg/L). However, assays performed on 24 h Candida albicans and C. glabrata biofilms revealed that micafungin and caspofungin failed to eradicate mature biofilms at all tested concentrations, evidencing that once formed, Candida spp. biofilms are extremely difficult to eliminate using currently available antifungals. We then evaluated the antifungal and anti-biofilm effect of andrographolide, a natural compound isolated from the plant Andrographis paniculata with known antibiofilm activity on Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria . Optical density measures, impedance evaluation, CFU counts, and electron microscopy data showed that andrographolide strongly inhibits planktonic Candida spp. growth and halts Candida spp. biofilm formation in a dose-dependent manner in all tested strains. Moreover, andrographolide was capable of eliminating mature biofilms and viable cell numbers by up to 99.9% in the C. albicans and C. glabrata strains tested, suggesting its potential as a new approach to treat multi-resistant Candida spp. biofilm-related infections.
