Title: Combinatorial biomarker for predicting outcomes to anti-PD-1 therapy in patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma
Authors: Julie Stein Deutsch, Evan J. Lipson, Ludmila Danilova, Suzanne L. Topalian, Jaroslaw Jedrych, Ezra Baraban, Yasser Ged, Nirmish Singla, Toni K. Choueiri, Saurabh Gupta, Robert J. Motzer, David McDermott, Sabina Signoretti, Michael Atkins, Janis M. Taube
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100947
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975323

Abstract:
Summary With a rapidly developing immunotherapeutic landscape for patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma, biomarkers of efficacy are highly desirable to guide treatment strategy. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained slides are inexpensive and widely available in pathology laboratories, including in resource-poor settings. Here, H&E scoring of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIL plus ) in pre-treatment tumor specimens using light microscopy is associated with improved overall survival (OS) in three independent cohorts of patients receiving immune checkpoint blockade. Necrosis score alone does not associate with OS; however, necrosis modifies the predictive effect of TIL plus , a finding that has broad translational relevance for tissue-based biomarker development. PBRM1 mutational status is combined with H&E scores to further refine outcome predictions (OS, p = 0.007, and objective response, p = 0.04). These findings bring H&E assessment to the fore for biomarker development in future prospective, randomized trials, and emerging multi-omics classifiers. Graphical abstract Highlights • H&E score of immune cells in pre-immunotherapy tumors associates with improved OS • Necrosis in pre-treatment specimens attenuates the beneficial effect of TIL plus • TIL plus and necrosis can be combined with PBRM1 status to improve OS stratification • H&E slides used in routine, clinical care can be used for biomarker development Deutsch et al. show that H&E slide scores of immune response and necrosis predict outcomes following immune checkpoint blockade in renal cell carcinoma. When combined with PBRM1 mutational status, patients are further stratified. The influence of tumoral necrosis on infiltrating immune cells has broad translational relevance for tissue-based biomarker development.
