Title: Utility of novel viral and immune markers in predicting HBV treatment endpoints: A systematic review of treatment discontinuation studies
Authors: Georgia Zeng, Apostolos Koffas, Lung-Yi Mak, Upkar S. Gill, Patrick T.F. Kennedy
Year: 2023
Venue: JHEP Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.jhepr.2023.100720
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149368

Abstract:
Background & Aims Antivirals represent the mainstay of chronic hepatitis B treatment given their efficacy and tolerability, but rates of functional cure remain low during long-term therapy. Treatment discontinuation has emerged as a strategy to maintain partial cure and achieve functional cure in select patient groups. We aimed to evaluate how data from treatment discontinuation studies exploring novel viral and/or immune markers could be applied to the functional cure program. Methods Treatment discontinuation studies evaluating novel viral and/or immune markers were identified by a systematic search of the PubMed database through to October 30, 2022. Data extraction focused on information regarding novel markers, including identified cut-off levels, timing of measurement, and associated effect on study outcomes of virological relapse, clinical relapse, and HBsAg seroclearance. Results From a search of 4,492 citations, 33 studies comprising a minimum of 2,986 unique patients met the inclusion criteria. Novel viral markers, HBcrAg and HBV RNA, were demonstrated across most studies to be helpful in predicting off-therapy partial cure, with emerging evidence to support a link with functional cure. From novel immune marker studies, we observed that treatment discontinuation has the potential to trigger immune restoration, which may be associated with a transient virological relapse. To this end, these studies support the combination of virus-directing agents with immunomodulator therapies to induce two key steps underlying functional cure: viral antigen load reduction and restoration of the host immune response. Conclusions Patients with a favourable profile of novel viral and immune markers stand to benefit from a trial of antiviral treatment discontinuation alongside novel virus-directing agents with the aim of achieving functional cure without excessive risk of severe clinical relapse. Impact and implications Select patients with chronic hepatitis B undergoing nucleoside analogue therapy may benefit from a trial of treatment discontinuation, aiming to maintain partial cure and/or achieve functional cure. We propose a profile of novel viral and immune markers to identify patients who are likely to achieve these goals without excessive risk of hepatic decompensation. Furthermore, treatment discontinuation may also be considered as a therapeutic strategy to trigger immune restoration, which may increase the chance of functional cure when used in conjunction with novel virus-directing agents. Graphical abstract Highlights • There remains considerable interest in the potential for treatment discontinuation in select patients with CHB. • Novel viral markers, HBcrAg and HBV RNA, in conjunction with quantitative HBsAg, have demonstrated utility in predicting off-therapy cure. • Novel immune markers with the potential to predict immune restoration after treatment discontinuation are required. • Both virus-targeted and immunomodulatory agents should be used together to achieve functional cure.
