Title: Comparative evaluation of efficacy of three different denture cleansing methods in reducing Candida albicans count in removable partial denture wearers: A randomized controlled trial
Authors: Arun Rajendran, Roshy George, Nicholas Mathew, M. Ranjith, N Abu Nazar
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_553_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9416958

Abstract:
Aims: The study aims to find out the best possible method of cleaning the removable partial denture (RPD) by evaluating the Candida count limiting ability in RPD users using three different cleaning methods. Settings and Design: The present study is randomized controlled trial. Three groups were formed with 20 participants in each. The groups were Group 1 RPD cleansing done using sterile saline and denture brush (negative control group), Group 2 RPD cleansing done using soap and denture brush and Group 3 RPD cleansing done using denture cleansing tablet and denture brush. Materials and Methods: A baseline data and 15 days’ postinsertion data of Candida count was recorded using swab collection, from the RPDs given. The swab was collected, cultured, and incubated using standard methods. Once Candida was identified using Sabouraud's dextrose agar, Candida albicans was further confirmed using germ tube test and cornmeal agar. Statistical Analysis Used: The analysis was done using SPSS software (IBM Corp. Released 2010. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 19.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.). Paired t -test, was used to compare the number of colonies pre and postintervention. The difference between the groups was analyzed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey's post hoc analysis. Results: The comparison of baseline data and postintervention data within each group using paired t test demonstrated statistically significant values; P = 0.046 and 0.000 in Group 2 and 3 respectively. The difference between the Candida colonies in three different groups after the intervention (15 Days) was analyzed using analysis of variance and found to be statistically significant with P = 0.004. Tukey's post hoc analysis was used to analyze the difference between the groups. It was concurred that there was a statistically significant difference between all three groups, but the difference in the mean was highest between the Group 1 and 3 (1210.99). Conclusion: Within the limitations of the study, it is concluded that the use of denture cleansers and brush on a daily basis would actively reduce the number of C. albicans colony formation in RPD and thereby improve the overall health of denture wearer.
