Title: The Effect of Polishing, Glazing, and Aging on Optical Characteristics of Multi-Layered Dental Zirconia with Different Degrees of Translucency
Authors: Flavia Roxana Toma, Sorin Daniel Porojan, Roxana Diana Vasiliu, Liliana Porojan
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Functional Biomaterials
DOI: 10.3390/jfb14020068
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967825

Abstract:
(1) Background: Considering that the appearance of a dental material is an important factor that contributes to the success of prosthetic restorations. The purpose of this study is to investigate the optical properties and color changes among the layers of three commercial zirconias, to compare the aspect of the polished and glazed surfaces before and after aging and to evaluate the effects of hydrothermal degradation on their aesthetics. (2) Methods: Forty-eight plate-shaped samples were sectioned from presintered blocks of each multilayer translucent zirconia with different Yttrium content: Ceramill Zolid fx ML (5 mol%) = CeZ, STML (4 mol%) = STM, IPS e.maxZirCAD CEREC/in Lab MT Multi (4 mol% + 5 mol%) = IPZ. The samples were sintered according to the recommendation of each manufacturer, and half (24) of them were polished and the other half (24) glazed on one of the surfaces. Each type was equally divided into one control and one aging group, and, for each material, this resulted in four groups (n = 12): polished-control, polished-autoclaved glazed-control, and glazed-autoclaved. The artificial aging was carried out with an autoclave and distilled water at 134 °C, 0.2 MPa for 1 h, and for optical parameters (TP, CR, OP) and color change (ΔE*) measurements on a black and white background in a CIE L*a*b* color system, a spectrophotometer was used. The specimens were evaluated in incisal, cervical, and medium areas on polished and glazed samples before and after the aging stage. Statistical analysis was achieved with a two-way ANOVA test, the unpaired t -test, and the paired t -test. (3) Results: Before and after aging, the mean TP values for polished samples were higher than the glazed ones. After aging, the mean TP values increased for all groups (except polished CeZ), and significant differences were reported for polished STM, IPZ. After LTD, the opalescence registered an increase for almost all groups (except polished CeZ, polished and glazed IPZ—medium area), and significant differences were reported for almost all groups (except STM—incisal, IPZ—cervical, medium areas). The levels of color change were between extremely slight to perceivable. (4) Conclusions: Optical properties of the selected multilayer zirconia were influenced by polishing and glazing as surface treatment and affected by artificial aging (CeZ the least); perceivable color changes for polished STM, IPZ were detected.
