Title: A prospective, randomized, controlled, multicentre trial for secondary prevention in patients with chronic coronary syndrome using a smartphone application for digital therapy: the CHANGE study protocol
Authors: Philip Düsing, Irina Eckardt, Stephan H Schirmer, Jan-Malte Sinning, Nikos Werner, Florian Bönner, Alexander Krogmann, Sebastian Schäfer, Alexander Sedaghat, Cornelius Müller, Georg Nickenig, Andreas Zietzer
Year: 2023
Venue: European Heart Journal. Digital Health
DOI: 10.1093/ehjdh/ztad012
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232292

Abstract:
Abstract Aims Coronary artery disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of death worldwide. ‘Stable’ CAD is a chronic progressive condition, which recent European guidelines recommend referring to as ‘chronic coronary syndrome’ (CCS). Despite therapeutic advances, morbidity and mortality among patients with CCS remain high. Optimal secondary prevention in patients with CCS includes optimization of modifiable risk factors with behavioural changes and pharmacological therapy. The CHANGE study aims to provide evidence for optimization of secondary prevention in CCS patients by using a smartphone application (app). Methods and results The CHANGE study is designed as a prospective, randomized, controlled trial with a 1:1 allocation ratio, which is currently performed in nine centres in Germany in a parallel group design. 210 patients with CCS will be randomly allocated either to the control group (standard-of-care) or to the intervention group, who will be provided the VantisTherapy* app in addition to standard-of-care to incorporate secondary prevention into their daily life. The study will be performed in an open design. Outcomes will be assessed using objective data from three in-person visits (0, 12, and 24 weeks). Primary outcomes will involve adherence to secondary prevention recommendations and quality of life (QoL). The recruitment process started in July 2022. Conclusion The CHANGE study will investigate whether a smartphone-guided secondary prevention app, combined with a monitor function compared with standard-of-care, has beneficial effects on overall adherence to secondary prevention guidelines and QoL in patients with CCS. Trial registration The study is listed at the German study registry (DRKS) under the registered number DRKS00028081. Graphical Abstract Graphical Abstract
