Title: Disseminated nontuberculous mycobacterial infection in a patient with idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia and IFN-γ neutralizing antibodies: a case report
Authors: Ryo Goto, Seiji Shiota, Ryo Kaimori, Noboru Horinouchi, Rie Utsunomiya Nishimizu, Kyoko Yamamoto, Eishi Miyazaki
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Infectious Diseases
DOI: 10.1186/s12879-023-08020-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887866

Abstract:
Background Disseminated nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infection usually occurs in immunodeficient patients, such as those with human immunodeficiency virus infection and idiopathic CD4 lymphopenia. However, disseminated NTM diseases have also been reported in immunocompetent patients. Autoantibodies to interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) are known to be involved in disseminated NTM disease, although anti-IFN-γ antibodies are mainly seen in immunocompetent patients rather than those with immunodeficiency. Here, we report a rare case of disseminated NTM patient with idiopathic CD4 lymphopenia and anti-IFN-γ antibodies. Case presentation A 64-year-old Asian male presented with fever, back pain, anorexia and weight loss. Physical examination revealed subcutaneous masses in the forehead, sternoclavicular joint, and right inguinal region. Computed tomography showed multiple osteosclerotic changes with soft structures and osteolytic changes. Both blood and sputum cultures were positive for Mycobacterium intracellulare, confirming the presence of disseminated NTM infection. Histopathological evaluation of the subcutaneous mass in the right inguinal region showed numerous granulomas consisting of epithelioid cells with Langhans-type giant cells. He was diagnosed with idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia. Interestingly, he also had anti-IFN-γ autoantibodies with suppression of IFN-γ-dependent signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation. Two-drug combination therapy with clarithromycin and ethambutol was started for the NTM infection, which resulted in a favorable disease course. Conclusions In patients with disseminated NTM infection, idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia and anti-IFN-γ autoantibody-positive immunodeficiency can be coexisted. It is necessary to clarify the pathogenesis and clinical course of CD4 lymphocytopenic conditions and IFN-γ neutralizing antibody-positive in the disseminated NTM disease.
