Title: Digital tools to improve parenting behaviour in low-income settings: a mixed-methods feasibility study
Authors: Lena Jäggi, Leonel Aguilar, Milagros Alvarado Llatance, Andreana Castellanos, Guenther Fink, Kristen Hinckley, Maria-Luisa Huaylinos Bustamante, Dana Charles McCoy, Hector Verastegui, Daniel Mäusezahl, Stella Maria Hartinger Pena
Year: 2023
Venue: Archives of Disease in Childhood
DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2022-324964
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313948

Abstract:
Introduction Digital parenting interventions could be potentially cost-effective means for providing early child development services in low-income settings. This 5-month mixed-methods pilot study evaluated the feasibility of using Afinidata , a comprehensive Facebook Messenger -based digital parenting intervention in a remote rural setting in Latin America and explored necessary adaptations to local context. Methods The study was conducted in three provinces in the Cajamarca region, Peru, from February to July 2021. 180 mothers with children aged between 2 and 24 months and regular access to a smartphone were enrolled. Mothers were interviewed three times in-person. Selected mothers also participated in focus groups or in-depth qualitative interviews. Results Despite the rural and remote study site, 88% of local families with children between 0 and 24 months had access to internet and smartphones. Two months after baseline, 84% of mothers reported using the platform at least once, and of those, 87% rated it as useful to very useful. After 5 months, 42% of mothers were still active on the platform, with little variation between urban and rural settings. Modifications to the intervention focused on assisting mothers in navigating the platform independently and included adding a laminated booklet with general information on child development, sample activities and detailed instructions on how to self-enrol in case of lost phones. Conclusions We found high access to smartphones and the intervention was well received and used in very remote areas of Peru, suggesting that digital parenting interventions could be a promising path forward for supporting low-income families in remote parts of Latin America.
