Title: Mask R-CNN assisted 2.5D object detection pipeline of 68 Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT-positive metastatic pelvic lymph node after radical prostatectomy from solely CT imaging
Authors: Di Xu, Martin Ma, Minsong Cao, Amar U. Kishan, Nicholas G. Nickols, Fabien Scalzo, Ke Sheng
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-28669-y
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9886937

Abstract:
Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) is a molecular and functional imaging modality with better restaging accuracy over conventional imaging for detecting prostate cancer in men suspected of lymph node (LN) progression after definitive therapy. However, the availability of PSMA PET/CT is limited in both low-resource settings and for repeating imaging surveillance. In contrast, CT is widely available, cost-effective, and routinely performed as part of patient follow-up or radiotherapy workflow. Compared with the molecular activities, the morphological and texture changes of subclinical LNs in CT are subtle, making manual detection of positive LNs infeasible. Instead, we harness the power of artificial intelligence for automated LN detection on CT. We examined 68 Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT images from 88 patients (including 739 PSMA PET/CT-positive pelvic LNs) who experienced a biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy and presented for salvage radiotherapy with prostate-specific antigen < 1 ng/mL. Scans were divided into a training set (nPatient = 52, nNode = 400), a validation set (nPatient = 18, nNode = 143), and a test set (nPatient = 18, nNodes = 196). Using PSMA PET/CT as the ground truth and consensus pelvic LN clinical target volumes as search regions, a 2.5-dimensional (2.5D) Mask R-CNN based object detection framework was trained. The entire framework contained whole slice imaging pretraining, masked-out region fine-tuning, prediction post-processing, and “window bagging”. Following an additional preprocessing step—pelvic LN clinical target volume extraction, our pipeline located positive pelvic LNs solely based on CT scans. Our pipeline could achieve a sensitivity of 83.351%, specificity of 58.621% out of 196 positive pelvic LNs from 18 patients in the test set, of which most of the false positives can be post-removable by radiologists. Our tool may aid CT-based detection of pelvic LN metastasis and triage patients most unlikely to benefit from the PSMA PET/CT scan.
