Title: Lifestyle interventions to reduce endocrine-disrupting phthalate and phenol exposures among reproductive age men and women: A review and future steps
Authors: Leah Martin, Yu Zhang, Olivia First, Vicente Mustieles, Robin Dodson, Gabriela Rosa, Ayanna Coburn-Sanderson, Charleen D. Adams, Carmen Messerlian
Year: 2022
Venue: Environment international
DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2022.107576
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890927

Abstract:
Non-persistent endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs), including phthalates and phenols, are ubiquitous in both the environment and human body. A growing body of epidemiologic studies have identified concerning links between EDCs and adverse reproductive and developmental health effects. Despite consistent evidence, risk assessments and policy interventions often arrive late. This presents an urgent need to identify evidence-based interventions for implementation at both clinical and community levels to reduce EDC exposure, especially in susceptible populations. The reproductive life cycle (menarche to menopause for females and after pubertal onset for males) includes some of the most vulnerable periods to environmental exposures, such as the preconception and perinatal stages, representing a key window of opportunity to intervene and prevent unfavorable health outcomes. This review aims to synthesize and assess behavioral, dietary, and residential EDC-driven interventions to develop recommendations for subsequent, larger-scale studies that address knowledge-gaps in current interventions during the reproductive life cycle. We selected 21 primary interventions for evaluation, in addition to four supplemental interventions. Among these, accessible (web-based) educational resources, targeted replacement of (known) toxic products, and personalization of the intervention through meetings and support groups, were the most promising strategies for reducing EDC concentrations. However, we document a paucity of interventions to prevent phthalate and phenol exposures during the reproductive years, especially among men. Accordingly, we recommend additional, larger clinical and community-based intervention studies to reduce EDC exposure. Specifically, future intervention studies should focus on short-term, mid-, and long-term exposure reduction to phthalates and phenols. The latter, especially, is required for the development of clinical and public health guidelines to promote reproductive and developmental health globally.
