Title: Effect of B-complex vitamins on the antifatigue activity and bioavailability of ginsenoside Re after oral administration
Authors: Yin Bin Chen, Yu Fang Wang, Wei Hou, Ying Ping Wang, Sheng Yuan Xiao, Yang Yang Fu, Jia Wang, Si Wen Zheng, Pei He Zheng
Year: 2017
Venue: Journal of Ginseng Research
DOI: 10.1016/j.jgr.2016.03.006
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386126

Abstract:
Background Both ginsenoside Re and B-complex vitamins are widely used as nutritional supplements. They are often taken together so as to fully utilize their antifatigue and refreshing effects, respectively. Whether actually a drug–nutrient interaction exists between ginsenoside Re and B-complex vitamins is still unknown. The objective of this study was to simultaneously investigate the effect of B-complex vitamins on the antifatigue activity and bioavailability of ginsenoside Re after their oral administration. The study results will provide valuable theoretical guidance for the combined utilization of ginseng and B-complex vitamins. Methods Ginsenoside Re with or without B-complex vitamins was orally administered to mice to evaluate its antifatigue effects and to rats to evaluate its bioavailability. The antifatigue activity was evaluated by the weight-loaded swimming test and biochemical parameters, including hepatic glycogen, plasma urea nitrogen, and blood lactic acid. The concentration of ginsenoside Re in plasma was determined by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry. Results No antifatigue effect of ginsenoside Re was noted when ginsenoside Re in combination with B-complex vitamins was orally administered to mice. B-complex vitamins caused to a reduction in the bioavailability of ginsenoside Re with the area under the concentration–time curve from zero to infinity markedly decreasing from 11,830.85 ± 2,366.47 h·ng/mL to 890.55 ± 372.94 h·ng/mL. Conclusion The results suggested that there were pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic drug–nutrient interactions between ginsenoside Re and B-complex vitamins. B-complex vitamins can significantly weaken the antifatigue effect and decrease the bioavailability of ginsenoside Re when simultaneously administered orally.
