Title: Gaucher: A Systematic Review on Oral and Radiological Aspects
Authors: Giuseppe Minervini, Rocco Franco, Maria Maddalena Marrapodi, Vini Mehta, Luca Fiorillo, Almir Badnjević, Gabriele Cervino, Marco Cicciù
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59040670
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141990

Abstract:
Background and Objectives : Gaucher disease (GD) is a lysosomal storage disorder with the genetic autosomal recessive transmission. Bone involvement is a prevalent finding in Gaucher disease. It causes deformity and limits daily activities and the quality of life. In 75% of patients, there is bone involvement. This review aims to evaluate the principal findings in the jaw by a Cone-beam computed tomography (CBTC) and X-ray orthopantomography; Materials and Methods : PubMed, Web of Science, Lilacs and Scopus were systematically searched until 31 December 2022. In addition, a manual search was performed using the bibliography of selected articles and a Google Scholar search. Clinical studies were selected that considered principal radiographic findings in radiography in a group of patients affected by GD. Results : Out of 5079 papers, four studies were included. The main findings are generalized rarefaction and enlarged narrow space, anodontia. Conclusions : The exact mechanism of bone manifestation is probably due to the infiltration of Gaucher cells in the bone marrow and, consequently, the destruction of bone architecture. All long bones are a potential means of skeletal manifestation. The jaw is more affected than the maxilla, and the principal features are cortical thinning, osteosclerosis, pseudocystic lesions, mental demineralization, flattening in the head of the condyle, effacement of anatomical structures, thickening of maxillary sinus mucosa. The dentist plays a crucial role in diagnosing and treating these patients. Sometimes the diagnosis can be made by a simple panoramic radiograph. All long bones are affected, and the mandible is particularly involved.
