Title: The Effectiveness and Safety of Ropivacaine and Medium-Dose Dexmedetomidine in Cesarean Section
Authors: Bin-Bin Huang, Shi-Kun Niu
Year: 2022
Venue: Evidence-based Complementary and Alternative Medicine : eCAM
DOI: 10.1155/2022/4447484
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9239787

Abstract:
Objective : To study the effects of epidural anesthesia with different doses of dexmedetomidine and ropivacaine on postoperative hemodynamics and neonatal outcome of cesarean section parturients. Methods . A total of 90 parturients who underwent cesarean section admitted to our hospital from January 2019 to January 2020 were selected as the research objects and were divided into groups A, B, and C according to different dosages of dexmedetomidine, with 30 cases in each group. Groups A, B, and C were given dexmedetomidine 0.5 μ g/kg, 0.8 μ g/kg, 1.0 μ g/kg, respectively, combined with 0.2% ropivacaine. The anesthesia effect, traction response, hemodynamic indexes, and neonatal Apgar score of the three groups were compared; the “Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) Score” was used to assess the postoperative pain of the parturients, and the “Ramsay Sedation Scale” was used to assess the sedation state of the parturients. Results . The superior anesthesia effect of group B was obtained compared with groups A and C ( P < 0.05). Group B witnessed a lower degree of grade III stretching response, as compared to group A ( P < 0.05). In comparison with groups A and C, superior results of the heart rate and mean artery pressure (MAP) of group B at T1 and T2 were obtained ( P < 0.05). The neonatal Apgar score in group B was lower than those in groups A and C ( P < 0.05), and the NRS score of group B was also lower than that of group A ( P < 0.05). Compared with groups A and C, group B yielded a more favorable outcome in terms of the Ramsay score ( P < 0.05). Conclusion . The use of medium-dose dexmedetomidine in cesarean section parturients is safer and can effectively reduce the impact on maternal hemodynamics, which is worthy of promotion and application.
