Title: Semaphorin 3A blocks the formation of pathologic choroidal neovascularization induced by transforming growth factor beta
Authors: Yujing Bai, Shuting Liang, Wenzhen Yu, Min Zhao, Lvzhen Huang, Mingwei Zhao, Xiaoxin Li
Year: 2014
Venue: Molecular Vision
DOI: 
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4168834

Abstract:
Objective Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is a major cause of vision loss in retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Previously, we demonstrated that semaphorin3A (Sema3A), which is a chemorepellent guidance molecule, inhibited the formation of retina neovascularization. In the present study, we investigated the antiangiogenic effects of Sema3A on transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) in vitro and in vivo. Methods Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were used to measure the TGF-β levels in the vitreous humor of patients with AMD and controls. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used for the in vitro study, and a laser-induced CNV mouse model was prepared for the in vivo study. The HUVECs were incubated with TGF-β and Sema3A. The proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and tube formation of the cells were then measured using BrdU, Transwell, flow cytometry, and Matrigel assays, respectively, and the SMAD2/3 signaling pathways were analyzed using western blot analysis. The C57BL/6J mouse retina was exposed to a laser to induce choroidal neovascularization (CNV), and Sema3A was injected intravitreously. After 14 days, fundus fluorescein angiography was performed to evaluate the leakage area of the CNV. The vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and TGF-β concentrations in the retina-choroid complex were measured with ELISA. Components of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), and SMAD2/3 signaling pathways in the Sema3A-treated groups were analyzed using western blotting. Results In this study, we first verified that the vitreous TGF-β level was higher in patients with neovascular AMD than in the controls. We also showed that Sema3A inhibited TGF-β-induced HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation and inhibited the downstream SMAD2/3 signaling pathway. Sema3A also induced TGF-β-stimulated HUVEC apoptosis and inhibited the response of TGF-β in vitro. In vivo, the TGF-β level was increased in the CNV mouse model. Sema3A not only inhibited laser-induced CNV formation but also inhibited the uptake of VEGF and TGF-β. In the western blot analysis, Sema3A was shown to inhibit the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, ERK1/2, and JNK and to inhibit the SMAD2/3 signaling pathway after Sema3A treatment in CNV mice. Conclusions Sema3A can be applied as a useful, adjunctive therapeutic strategy for preventing CNV formation.
