Title: Optimization of Application-Driven Development of In Vitro Neuromuscular Junction Models
Authors: Julie B. Strickland, Katie Davis-Anderson, Sofiya Micheva-Viteva, Scott Twary, Rashi Iyer, Jennifer Foster Harris, Emilia A. Solomon
Year: 2022
Venue: Tissue Engineering. Part B, Reviews
DOI: 10.1089/ten.teb.2021.0204
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805869

Abstract:
Neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) are specialized synapses responsible for signal transduction between motor neurons (MNs) and skeletal muscle tissue. Malfunction at this site can result from developmental disorders, toxic environmental exposures, and neurodegenerative diseases leading to severe neurological dysfunction. Exploring these conditions in human or animal subjects is restricted by ethical concerns and confounding environmental factors. Therefore, in vitro NMJ models provide exciting opportunities for advancements in tissue engineering. In the last two decades, multiple NMJ prototypes and platforms have been reported, and each model system design is strongly tied to a specific application: exploring developmental physiology, disease modeling, or high-throughput screening. Directing the differentiation of stem cells into mature MNs and/or skeletal muscle for NMJ modeling has provided critical cues to recapitulate early-stage development. Patient-derived inducible pluripotent stem cells provide a personalized approach to investigating NMJ disease, especially when disease etiology cannot be resolved down to a specific gene mutation. Having reproducible NMJ culture replicates is useful for high-throughput screening to evaluate drug toxicity and determine the impact of environmental threat exposures. Cutting-edge bioengineering techniques have propelled this field forward with innovative microfabrication and design approaches allowing both two-dimensional and three-dimensional NMJ culture models. Many of these NMJ systems require further validation for broader application by regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies, and the general research community. In this summary, we present a comprehensive review on the current state-of-art research in NMJ models and discuss their ability to provide valuable insight into cell and tissue interactions. Impact statement In vitro neuromuscular junction (NMJ) models reveal the specialized mechanisms of communication between neurons and muscle tissue. This site can be disrupted by developmental disorders, toxic environmental exposures, or neurodegenerative diseases, which often lead to fatal outcomes and is therefore of critical importance to the medical community. Many bioengineering approaches for in vitro NMJ modeling have been designed to mimic development and disease; other approaches include in vitro NMJ models for high-throughput toxicology screening, providing a platform to limit or replace animal testing. This review describes various NMJ applications and the bioengineering advancements allowing for human NMJ characteristics to be more accurately recapitulated. While the extensive range of NMJ device structures has hindered standardization attempts, there is still a need to harmonize these devices for broader application and to continue advancing the field of NMJ modeling.
