Title: Effects of exposure to elevated temperature and different food levels on the escape response and metabolism of early life stages of white seabream, Diplodus sargus
Authors: João Almeida, Ana Rita Lopes, Laura Ribeiro, Sara Castanho, Ana Candeias-Mendes, Pedro Pousão-Ferreira, Ana M Faria
Year: 2022
Venue: Conservation Physiology
DOI: 10.1093/conphys/coac023
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9109722

Abstract:
Results of this study suggest an acclimation of the escape response and routine metabolic rate (RMR) of white seabream early life stages under warming conditions. Nevertheless, food shortage, interacting with high temperature, led to an increase in latency response and a significant reduction in RMRs. abstract Recent literature suggests that anthropogenic stressors can disrupt ecologically relevant behaviours in fish, such as the ability to escape from predators. Disruption of these behaviours at critical life history transitions, such as the transition from the pelagic environment to the juvenile/adult habitat, may have even greater repercussions. The literature suggests that an increase in temperature can affect fish escape response, as well as metabolism; however, few studies have focused on the acute sensitivity responses and the potential for acclimation through developmental plasticity. Here, we aimed at evaluating the acute and long-term effects of exposure to warming conditions on the escape response and routine metabolic rate (RMR) of early life stages of the white seabream, Diplodus sargus . Additionally, as food availability may modulate the response to warming, we further tested the effects of long-term exposure to high temperature and food shortage, as individual and interacting drivers, on escape response and RMR. Temperature treatments were adjusted to ambient temperature (19°C) and a high temperature (22°C). Feeding treatments were established as high ration and low ration (50% of high ration). Escape response and RMR were measured after the high temperature was reached (acute exposure) and after 4 weeks (prolonged exposure). Acute warming had a significant effect on escape response and generated an upward trend in RMR. In the long term, however, there seems to be an acclimation of the escape response and RMR. Food shortage, interacting with high temperature, led to an increase in latency response and a significant reduction in RMR. The current study provides relevant experimental data on fishes’ behavioural and physiological responses to the combined effects of multiple stressors. This knowledge can be incorporated in recruitment models, thereby contributing to fine-tuning of models required for fisheries management and species conservation.
