Title: MRI-identified Multidimensional Nodal Features Predict Survival and Concurrent Chemotherapy Benefit for Stage II Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
Authors: Yang Liu, Jianghu Zhang, Jingbo Wang, Runye Wu, Xiaodong Huang, Kai Wang, Yuan Qu, Xuesong Chen, Yexiong Li, Ye Zhang, Junlin Yi
Year: 2022
Venue: Radiology and Oncology
DOI: 10.2478/raon-2022-0047
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9784368

Abstract:
Abstract Background Reliable predictors are urgently needed to identify stage II nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients who could benefit from concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). We aimed to develop a nomogram integrating MRI-identified multidimensional features of lymph nodes to predict survival and assist the decision-making of CCRT for stage II NPC. Patients and methods This retrospective study enrolled 242 stage II NPC patients treated from January 2007 to December 2017. Overall survival (OS) was the primary endpoint. Performance of nomogram was evaluated using calibration curves, Harrell Concordance Index (C-index), area under the curve (AUC) and decision curves analysis (DCA) and was compared with TNM staging. According to the individualized nomogram score, patients were classified into two risk cohorts and therapeutic efficacy of CCRT were evaluated in each cohort. Results Three independent prognostic factors for OS: age, number and location of positive lymph nodes were included into the final nomogram. T stage was also incorporated due to its importance in clinical decision-making. Calibration plots demonstrated a good match between the predicted and our observed OS rates. C-index for nomogram was 0.726 compared with 0.537 for TNM staging ( p < 0.001). DCAs confirmed the superior clinical utility of nomograms compared with TNM staging. CCRT compared to intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) delivered OS benefit to patients in the high-risk group (5-year: 89.9% vs . 72.1%; 10-year: 72.5% vs . 34.2%, p = 0.011), but not in the low-risk group. Conclusions This lymph node features-based nomogram demonstrated excellent discrimination and predictive accuracy for stage II patients and could identify patients who can benefit from CCRT.
