Title: Mitochondrial GPAT-derived LPA controls auxin-dependent embryonic and postembryonic development
Authors: Qianru Jia, Yang Bai, Hui Xu, Qingyun Liu, Wenyan Li, Teng Li, Feng Lin, Like Shen, Wei Xuan, Wenhua Zhang, Qun Zhang
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2212881119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9894262

Abstract:
Significance Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is an anionic bioactive phospholipid. In this study, we explored whether and how LPA signaling impacts plant growth and development and discovered that LPA-controlled membrane properties modulate the PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) auxin efflux transporter, which is linked to the plasma membrane and polar auxin transport in plants. Our findings reveal a fundamental role of lipid metabolism in controlling embryonic and postembryonic development, as well as mechanistically interconnecting membrane LPA and PIN1 in the fine-tuned regulation of auxin signaling. Membrane properties are emerging as important cues for the spatiotemporal regulation of hormone signaling. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) evokes multiple biological responses by activating G protein–coupled receptors in mammals. In this study, we demonstrated that LPA derived from the mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases GPAT1 and GPAT2 is a critical lipid-based cue for auxin-controlled embryogenesis and plant growth in Arabidopsis thaliana . LPA levels decreased, and the polarity of the auxin efflux carrier PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) at the plasma membrane (PM) was defective in the gpat1 gpat2 mutant. As a consequence of distribution defects, instructive auxin gradients and embryonic and postembryonic development are severely compromised. Further cellular and genetic analyses revealed that LPA binds directly to PIN1, facilitating the vesicular trafficking of PIN1 and polar auxin transport. Our data support a model in which LPA provides a lipid landmark that specifies membrane identity and cell polarity, revealing an unrecognized aspect of phospholipid patterns connecting hormone signaling with development.
