Title: Long-term results of autologous periosteum-derived micro-grafts with poly(lactic-go-glycolic acid) in sinus lift augmentation surgeries: A 7-years follow-up observational study
Authors: Elisa Paolin, Gabriele Ceccarelli, Ruggero Rodriguez Y Baena, Luigi D'Urso, Claudia Todaro, Saturnino Marco Lupi
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108153
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149326

Abstract:
Introduction and importance The study aimed to present the long-term results of autologous and homologous micrografts for bone regeneration aimed at positioning dental implants after sinus lift augmentation surgeries, by combining autologous Rigenera® micrografts with poly(lactic-go-glycolic acid). Case presentation A total of 5 patients (2 males and 3 females) from 36 to 71 years were involved in the observational study. All the patients showed a good health status system (ASA1 and 2), according to their clinical history with neither system diseases, nor under medication able to interfere with osseointegration. Clinical discussion The radiographic evaluations, after the implant placement and during the continuous follow-up upto 7 years, were carried out through periapical endoral x-rays. The survival and implant success rate was 100 %. Histological analyses were performed after 3 and 7 months after the surgical procedure. Conclusion No adverse events have been observed that can be traced back to the use of autologous micrografts with poly(lactic-go-glycolic acid), showing safety and predictable results even in long term. Highlights • In this retrospective study, the Rigenera® technology was combined with Fisiograft® in patients requiring bone grafting and sinus lift. • Autologous micrografts, obtained with the Rigenera® device, create a suspension with fragments rich in progenitor cells and growth factors. • PLGA (Fisiograft®) is a synthetic, biocompatible, and biodegradable polymer widely used for both tissue engineering and drug delivery system. • The sinus lift augmentation surgeries were performed following the lateral window technique. • Sinus lift surgeries with Rigenera® technology and PLGA are a safe procedure with predictable long-term results.
