Title: Serum Metabolome Adaptations Following 12 Weeks of High-Intensity Interval Training or Moderate-Intensity Continuous Training in Obese Older Adults
Authors: Layale Youssef, Mélanie Bourgin, Sylvère Durand, Fanny Aprahamian, Deborah Lefevre, Maria Chiara Maiuri, Vincent Marcangeli, Maude Dulac, Guy Hajj-Boutros, Fanny Buckinx, Eva Peyrusqué, Pierrette Gaudreau, José A. Morais, Gilles Gouspillou, Guido Kroemer, Mylène Aubertin-Leheudre, Philippe Noirez
Year: 2023
Venue: Metabolites
DOI: 10.3390/metabo13020198
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967246

Abstract:
Physical activity can be effective in preventing some of the adverse effects of aging on health. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) and moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) are beneficial interventions for the quality of life of obese older individuals. The understanding of all possible metabolic mechanisms underlying these beneficial changes has not yet been established. The aim of this study was to analyze changes in the serum metabolome after 12 weeks of HIIT and MICT in obese older adults. Thirty-eight participants performed either HIIT ( n = 26) or MICT ( n = 12) three times per week for 12 weeks. Serum metabolites as well as clinical and biological parameters were assessed before and after the 12-week intervention. Among the 364 metabolites and ratio of metabolites identified, 51 metabolites changed significantly following the 12-week intervention. Out of them, 21 significantly changed following HIIT intervention and 18 significantly changed following MICT. Associations with clinical and biological adaptations revealed that changes in acyl-alkyl-phosphatidylcholine (PCae) (22:1) correlated positively with changes in handgrip strength in the HIIT group (r = 0.52, p < 0.01). A negative correlation was also observed between 2-oxoglutaric acid and HOMA-IR (r = −0.44, p < 0.01) when considering both groups together (HIIT and MICT). This metabolite also correlated positively with quantitative insulin-sensitivity check index (QUICKI) in both groups together (r = 0.46, p < 0.01) and the HIIT group (r = 0.51, p < 0.01). Additionally, in the MICT group, fumaric acid was positively correlated with triglyceride levels (r = 0.73, p < 0.01) and acetylcarnitine correlated positively with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (r = 0.81, p < 0.01). These four metabolites might represent potential metabolites of interest concerning muscle strength, glycemic parameters, as well as lipid profile parameters, and hence, for a potential healthy aging. Future studies are needed to confirm the association between these metabolites and a healthy aging.
