Title: Malposition of subcutaneous central venous port system in a toddler with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: A case report
Authors: Ljupcho Donev, Aleksandar Stepanovski, Elena Filipova, Albert Lleshi, Slavica Litajkovska, Andrijana Andreevska Stepanovska
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108075
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140788

Abstract:
Introduction Central venous port systems are essential for reliable and long-term venous access in children, mainly for cancer therapy, parenteral nutrition, administration of medications, blood transfusion, etc. However, complications either periprocedural, early, or delayed can be expected and may affect the venous port function, with occasional revision and even port removal. Case presentation A central venous port device was implanted in a 2.5-year-old boy for chemotherapy administration in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. After a month he presented again to our clinic due to a venous port device dysfunction, and inability to aspirate blood or infuse medications. A reoperation was done that revealed a port chamber in-place rotation. The chamber was repositioned in the pouch and suture-fixated. No port-related problems occurred in the follow-up period. Clinical discussion and conclusion Central venous port chamber rotation is among the rarest complications, which usually makes the port unusable. It should be quickly recognized, to avoid further damage, such as extravasation of the chemotherapeutic agent or mechanical chamber impairment. A reoperation is almost always needed with subsequent placement of the port in the correct position. This paper also emphasizes the key concepts of complication in implantable venous ports in children. Highlights • Central venous port devices provide safe and effective venous access for multiple purposes. • Complications may occur in up to 27% of patients. • Central venous port chamber malposition and particularly rotation are among the rarest complications. • It is characterized by an inability to infuse medications or aspirate blood. • Revision surgery is mandatory once it is suspected.
