Title: Impact of mucus and biofilm on antimicrobial photodynamic therapy: Evaluation using Ruthenium(II) complexes
Authors: Raphaëlle Youf, Rosy Ghanem, Adeel Nasir, Gilles Lemercier, Tristan Montier, Tony Le Gall
Year: 2023
Venue: Biofilm
DOI: 10.1016/j.bioflm.2023.100113
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313506

Abstract:
The biofilm lifestyle of bacterial pathogens is a hallmark of chronic lung infections such as in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Bacterial adaptation to the complex conditions in CF-affected lungs and repeated antibiotherapies lead to increasingly tolerant and hard-to-treat biofilms. In the context of growing antimicrobial resistance and restricted therapeutic options, antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) shows great promise as an alternative to conventional antimicrobial modalities. Typically, aPDT consists in irradiating a non-toxic photosensitizer (PS) to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), which kill pathogens in the surrounding environment. In a previous study, we reported that some ruthenium (II) complexes ([Ru(II)]) can mediate potent photodynamic inactivation (PDI) against planktonic cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus clinical isolates. In the present work, [Ru(II)] were further assayed to evaluate their ability to photo-inactivate such bacteria under more complex experimental conditions better recapitulating the microenvironment in lung infected airways. Bacterial PDI was tentatively correlated with the properties of [Ru(II)] in biofilms, in mucus, and following diffusion across the latter. Altogether, the results obtained demonstrate the negative impacting role of mucus and biofilm components on [Ru(II)]-mediated PDT, following different possible mechanisms of action. Technical limitations were also identified that may be overcome, making this report a pilot for other similar studies. In conclusion, [Ru(II)] may be subjected to specific chemical engineering and/or drug formulation to adapt their properties to the harsh micro-environmental conditions of the infected respiratory tract. Graphical abstract Photosensitizers (PS) used for antimicrobial photodynamic therapy must be able to safely cross the micro-environment where to photo-inactivate the bacteria to eliminate. Along this path, mucus and biofilm on biotic or abiotic surfaces can act as major barriers. This study attempts to determine whether ruthenium (II) complexes may be impacted at the successive steps of this journey, by tentatively correlating bacterial photo-inactivation with the available amount of these PS and their ability to generate singlet oxygen ( 1 O 2 ). Image 1
