Title: Pre-ataxic loss of intrinsic plasticity and motor learning in a mouse model of SCA1
Authors: Catarina Osório, Joshua J White, Heiling Lu, Gerrit C Beekhof, Francesca Romana Fiocchi, Charlotte A Andriessen, Stephanie Dijkhuizen, Laura Post, Martijn Schonewille
Year: 2023
Venue: Brain
DOI: 10.1093/brain/awac422
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232256

Abstract:
Abstract Spinocerebellar ataxias are neurodegenerative diseases, the hallmark symptom of which is the development of ataxia due to cerebellar dysfunction. Purkinje cells, the principal neurons of the cerebellar cortex, are the main cells affected in these disorders, but the sequence of pathological events leading to their dysfunction is poorly understood. Understanding the origins of Purkinje cells dysfunction before it manifests is imperative to interpret the functional and behavioural consequences of cerebellar-related disorders, providing an optimal timeline for therapeutic interventions. Here, we report the cascade of events leading to Purkinje cells dysfunction before the onset of ataxia in a mouse model of spinocerebellar ataxia 1 (SCA1). Spatiotemporal characterization of the ATXN1[82Q] SCA1 mouse model revealed high levels of the mutant ATXN1[82Q] weeks before the onset of ataxia. The expression of the toxic protein first caused a reduction of Purkinje cells intrinsic excitability, which was followed by atrophy of Purkinje cells dendrite arborization and aberrant glutamatergic signalling, finally leading to disruption of Purkinje cells innervation of climbing fibres and loss of intrinsic plasticity of Purkinje cells. Functionally, we found that deficits in eyeblink conditioning, a form of cerebellum-dependent motor learning, precede the onset of ataxia, matching the timeline of climbing fibre degeneration and reduced intrinsic plasticity. Together, our results suggest that abnormal synaptic signalling and intrinsic plasticity during the pre-ataxia stage of spinocerebellar ataxias underlie an aberrant cerebellar circuitry that anticipates the full extent of the disease severity. Furthermore, our work indicates the potential for eyeblink conditioning to be used as a sensitive tool to detect early cerebellar dysfunction as a sign of future disease. Osório et al. investigate the progression of Purkinje cell pathology in a mouse model of spinocerebellar ataxia 1 and find, prior to ataxia, a cascade of pathologies that culminates in impaired plasticity and climbing input degeneration, simultaneous with the onset of a deficit in cerebellum-dependent learning.
