Title: A Dosimetric Analysis of Modified Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy for Bone Marrow Sparing Radiotherapy in Cervical Cancer-An alternative Approach to Conventional VMAT
Authors: Dharmendran Palani, Kesavan Govindaraj, Sowmiya Sampathrajan, Lavanya Karunagaran, Kadirampatti M. Ganesh
Year: 2022
Venue: Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention : APJCP
DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2022.23.12.4323
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971454

Abstract:
Background: External beam radiotherapy remains the primary treatment modality in cervical cancer. Nowadays Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) and volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) are increasingly being used to reduce normal tissue toxicity. The drawback of conventional VMAT is that a considerable volume of pelvic bone marrow receives a low dose. aim: We analyzed whether there was a way to reduce the volume of the low dose regions of bone marrow, and assessed the potential benefit of conventional-4Arc (C-4Arc VMAT), and Modified-4Arc (M-4Arc VMAT) over the conventional 2 ARC VMAT. Materials And Methods: Twelve clinically proven locally advanced cervical cancer patients treated with concurrent chemo-radiotherapy by Conventional VMAT (RapidArc) in dual rotation mode (C-2Arc VMAT) were selected for this study.C-4Arc VMAT and M-4Arc VMAT dose plans were generated for these twelve patients and these three different types of plans were evaluated for the quality and compared dosimetrically. Results: M-4Arc VMAT designs exhibited a greater bone marrow sparing when compared with conventional VMATs with respect to volume receiving 5Gy to 35Gy without compromising PTV dose coverage. M-4Arc VMAT plans, the bone marrow volume receiving 30 Gy (V30Gy),40Gy (V40Gy), and mean doses were lower than the C- 4 Arc plan and a similar result was observed for V50(Gy) also when comparing with the standard 2 Arc plan. In modified VMAT plans, the rectum and bladder dose volumes were lower than standard VMAT. Similarly, the bowel bag V35(Gy), V40(Gy), V50(Gy), mean doses. The right and left femoral head doses were reduced significantly when compared to conventional VMAT plans. Conclusion: The M-4Arc VMAT plans are better than the C-2Arc and C-4Arc VMAT plans for reducing the dose to bone marrow by limiting the MLC field width travel.
