Title: The establishment of mitotic errors-driven senescence depends on autophagy
Authors: Andreas Goutas, Zozo Outskouni, Ioanna Papathanasiou, Aphrodite Georgakopoulou, Georgios E. Karpetas, Efstathios S. Gonos, Varvara Trachana
Year: 2023
Venue: Redox Biology
DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2023.102701
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149375

Abstract:
We and others have reported that senescence onset is accompanied by genomic instability that is evident by several defects, such as aneuploidy or erroneous mitosis features. Here, we report that these defects also appear in young cells upon oxidative insult. We provide evidence that these errors could be the consequence of oxidative stress (OS)- either exogenous or senescence-associated – overriding the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC). Young cells treated with Η 2 Ο 2 as well as older cells fail to maintain mitotic arrest in the presence of spindle poisons and a significant higher percentage of them have supernumerary centrosomes and centrosome related anomalous characteristics. We also report that aging is escorted by expression modifications of SAC components, and especially of Bub1b/BubR1. Bub1b/BubR1 has been previously reported to decrease naturally upon aging. Here, we show that there is an initial increase in Bub1b/BubR1 levels, feasibly as part of the cells’ response against OS-driven genomic instability, that is followed by its autophagy dependent degradation. This provides an explanation that was missing regarding the molecular entity responsible for the downregulation of Bub1b/BubR1 upon aging, especially since it is well established, by us and others, that the proteasome function decays as cells age. These results, not only serve the previously reported notion of a shift from proteasome to autophagy-dependent degradation upon aging, but also provide a mechanistic insight for mitotic errors-driven senescence. We believe that our conclusions deepen our understanding regarding the homeostatic function of autophagy that serves the establishment of senescence as a barrier against cellular transformation. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • Spindle assembly checkpoint weakening due to oxidative stress leads to errors. • Senescence onset is accompanied by an increase in mitotic errors. • Autophagy is dysregulated in late passage cells. • Bub1b/BubR1 decrease in late passage cells is mediated by autophagy. • Mitotic errors-driven senescence depends on autophagy dysregulation.
