Title: Prognostic biomarkers in prodromal α-synucleinopathies: DAT binding and REM sleep without atonia
Authors: Dieter Kunz, Sophia Stotz, Jan de Zeeuw, Alexandra Papakonstantinou, Susanne Dümchen, Martin Haberecht, Michail Plotkin, Frederik Bes
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry
DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2022-330048
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10314035

Abstract:
Background Isolated rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder (iRBD) is a prodromal state of clinical α-synucleinopathies such as Parkinson’s disease and Lewy body dementia. The lead-time until conversion is unknown. The most reliable marker of progression is reduced striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) binding, but low availability of imaging facilities limits general use. Our prospective observational study aimed to relate metrics of REM sleep without atonia (RWA)—a hallmark of RBD—to DAT-binding ratios in a large, homogeneous sample of patients with RBD to explore the utility of RWA as a marker of progression in prodromal α-synucleinopathies. Methods DAT single-photon emission CT (SPECT) and video polysomnography (vPSG) were performed in 221 consecutive patients with clinically suspected RBD. Results vPSG confirmed RBD in 176 patients (162 iRBD, 14 phenoconverted, 45 non-synucleinopathies). Specific DAT-binding ratios differed significantly between groups, but showed considerable overlap. Most RWA metrics correlated significantly with DAT-SPECT ratios (eg, Montreal tonic vs most-affected-region: r=−0.525; p<0.001). In patients taking serotonergic/noradrenergic antidepressants or dopaminergic substances or with recent alcohol abuse, correlations were weaker, suggesting a confounding influence, unlike other possible confounders such as beta-blocker use or comorbid sleep apnoea. Conclusions In this large single-centre prospective observational study, we found evidence that DAT-binding ratios in patients with iRBD can be used to describe a continuum in the neurodegenerative process. Overlap with non-synucleinopathies and clinical α-synucleinopathies, however, precludes the use of DAT-binding ratios as a precise diagnostic marker. The parallel course of RWA metrics and DAT-binding ratios suggests in addition to existing data that RWA, part of the routine diagnostic workup in these patients, may represent a marker of progression. Based on our findings, we suggest ranges of RWA values to estimate whether patients are in an early, medium or advanced state within the prodromal phase of α-synucleinopathies, providing them with important information about time until possible conversion.
