Title: Efficacy of Two Vaccination Strategies against Infectious Bronchitis in Laying Hens
Authors: Ahmed Ali, Mohamed S. H. Hassan, Shahnas M. Najimudeen, Muhammad Farooq, Salama Shany, Mounir Mohamed El-Safty, Adel A. Shalaby, Mohamed Faizal Abdul-Careem
Year: 2023
Venue: Vaccines
DOI: 10.3390/vaccines11020338
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967544

Abstract:
Vaccination remains the leading control method against infectious bronchitis (IB) in poultry despite the frequently observed IB outbreaks in vaccinated flocks. Here, two vaccination regimes were evaluated against challenge with the Massachusetts (Mass) infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) strain that was linked to egg production defects in Western Canada. One vaccination strategy included live attenuated IB vaccines only, and the other used both inactivated and live attenuated IB vaccines. The two immunization programs involved priming with a monovalent live attenuated IB vaccine (Mass serotype) at day-old, followed by intervals of bivalent live attenuated IB vaccines containing the Mass and Connecticut (Conn) serotypes given to the pullets at 2-, 5-, 9-, and 14-week-old. Inactivated IB vaccine (Mass serotype) was administrated to only one group of the vaccinated birds at 14-week-old. At the peak of lay, the hens were challenged with the Mass IBV isolate (15AB-01) via the oculo-nasal route. The efficacy of the vaccines was assessed following the challenge by observing clinical signs, egg production, egg quality parameters, seroconversion, and systemic T-cell subsets (CD4+ and CD8+ cells). Moreover, the viral genome loads in the oropharyngeal (OP) and cloacal (CL) swabs were quantified at predetermined time points. At 14 days post-infection (dpi), all the hens were euthanized, and different tissues were collected for genome load quantification and histopathological examination. Post-challenge, both vaccination regimes showed protection against clinical signs and exhibited significantly higher albumen parameters, higher anti-IBV serum antibodies, and significantly lower levels of IBV genome loads in OP swabs (at 3 and 7 dpi) and trachea and cecal tonsils compared to the mock-vaccinated challenged group. However, only the birds that received live attenuated plus inactivated IB vaccines had significantly lower IBV genome loads in CL swabs at 7 dpi, as well as decreased histopathological lesion scores and IBV genome loads in magnum compared to the mock-vaccinated challenged group, suggesting a slightly better performance for using live attenuated and inactivated IB vaccines in combination. Overall, the present findings show no significant difference in protection between the two vaccination regimes against the Mass IBV challenge in laying hens.
