Title: Open Latarjet with Metal-Free Cerclage Fixation
Authors: Abdul-ilah Hachem, Usman Ahmed, Luis Rojas Ixtacuy, Andrés Molina-Creixell, Alex Campagnoli, Xavi Rius
Year: 2023
Venue: Arthroscopy Techniques
DOI: 10.1016/j.eats.2022.11.030
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149785

Abstract:
Despite multiple modifications, the Latarjet is still the most popular procedure for recurrent anterior shoulder instability with glenoid bone loss . Partial or subtotal resorption of the graft is common, potentially leading to hardware prominence and risk of anterior soft-tissue impingement. To minimize the technical difficulties and morbidity associated with metallic implants, a coracoid and conjoint tendon transfer with a mini-open approach using Cerclage tape suture is described, as an alternative for the Latarjet procedure typically performed with metal screws and plates. Technique Video Video 1 With the patient in the beach-chair position, a 5-cm skin incision is made from the tip of the coracoid going inferiorly to the axilla. A standard deltopectoral approach is performed. The coracoacromial ligament is identified to place a Hoffman retractor at the lateral aspect of the coracoid. The clavipectoral fascia is then opened, and the conjoint tendon is fully identified and separated, allowing the dissection of the pectoralis minor medially and a small stump of the coracoacromial ligament laterally. The coracoid base is exposed using a glenoid retractor. A 90° saw is used to cut the coracoid process. A special device clamps the coracoid, then the undersurface of the coracoid graft is debrided using a saw to achieve full contact against the glenoid neck. Two points are marked 1 cm apart on the articular surface to make 2 holes using a 3-mm drill bit. A suture link is passed around the base of the conjoint tendon for easier retrieval. The subscapularis muscle is split belong the mid and inferior third subsequently separating from the capsule by blunt dissection. The anterior glenoid neck is lightly debrided using a small burr. A Wissinger rod is passed parallel to the glenoid from anterior to posterior at the center of the anterior glenoid defect, marking the point where the posterior portal must be made. A half sleeve pipe is introduced from front to back over the Wissinger rod. With the guidance of the half sleeve pipe, a specific glenoid guide hook is inserted through the posterior transversal unique incision. The hook should be placed below the midline on the glenoid rim. A specific sleeve drill guide is assembled to the handle of the hook and introduced using the posterior incision. This specific drill guide should rest against the posterior glenoid neck. Two tunnels are drilled using the cannulated 3-mm drill bits from posterior to anterior. Glenoid drill guide stylets are now removed. Two nitinol wires are passed through the drills and immediately replaced by 2 high-strength sutures links, leaving one loop anteriorly and the other posteriorly. Two cerclage suture tapes, blue and white, are loaded to the loop of one suture link posteriorly to be transported through one glenoid tunnel. Both tapes are now passed through the cancellous corresponding hole, flossed, and then passed through the second hole of the coracoid graft, in the opposite direction. Finally, the cerclage tapes are loaded to the second suture link with the anterior loop and returned to the posterior aspect of the glenoid through the remaining bone tunnel, completing the circular configuration of the construct. Making use of the preconfigured racking hitch knots, the blue cerclage suture tapes are manually interconnected to the white ones and vice-versa. Then, the knots are reduced against the posterior aspect of the glenoid neck, by pulling the single limb cerclages tape alternatively and symmetrically. The white and the blue cerclage suture tapes must be pulled separately. The construct and the graft can now be checked. The system is secured with alternate four-half hitch knots using the knot-pusher while holding the post aside. Using a tensioner each suture is pulled up to 90 N. A tensioner is not used here because it is a cadaver demonstration. In the end, the correct position and fixation of the coracoid graft are checked under direct visualization. The medial capsule could be sutured to the remanent coracoacromial ligament or reinserted to the anterior glenoid rim. The subscapularis split is repaired using nonabsorbable sutures.
