Title: The Effect of Calcium Hydroxide, Triple Antibiotic Paste and Chlorhexidine on Pain in Teeth with Symptomatic Apical Periodontitis: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Authors: Asma Munir Khan, Irfana Khursheed Ahmed Gangoo, Naila Amir Ali, Mansoor Khan, Muhammad Qasim Javed, Mustafa Hussein AlAttas, Ayman M. Abulhamael, Hammam Ahmed Bahammam, Loai Alsofi, Rayan Suliman Al Yahya
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20043091
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967357

Abstract:
Background: One of the main reasons for post endodontic pain is the polymicrobial intracanal flora that may survive the initial disinfection. A single antimicrobial agent might not provide adequate disinfection, and an antimicrobial combination such as triple antibiotic paste was tested to achieve this goal. Aim: The study aimed to assess the efficacy of three intra-canal medicaments on post root canal preparation pain. Materials and Methods: Eighty patients with single-rooted necrotic teeth and symptomatic apical periodontitis were randomly assigned to four treatment groups ( n = 20). Their preoperative pain was recorded on Wong-Baker’s FACES pain rating scale. After chemo-mechanical canal preparation, intracanal medications were applied to the groups (Group 1 (20% calcium hydroxide), Group 2 (2% chlorhexidine), Group 3 (tri-antibiotic paste), Group 4 (no medication (Control group)). Patients were instructed to record pain on the Wong-Baker FACES pain rating scale at 4, 48, 72 and 96 hrs, postoperatively. Pain scores were analyzed using a one-way ANOVA test and Tukey’s post hoc test and, if significant, Dunn’s test was used for pair-wise comparisons. The significance level was set at a p -value ≤ 0.05. Results: Tukey’s post hoc test revealed significantly lower pain scores in Group 3 compared with other groups at all follow up intervals. Dunnett’s test showed significantly lower pain in Group 3 compared with the Control group at 48, 72 and 96 hrs, postoperatively. Conclusions: Triple-antibiotic paste showed effective pain control as an intracanal medication on necrotic teeth with symptomatic apical periodontitis.
