Title: In vivo stabilization of a less toxic asparaginase variant leads to a durable antitumor response in acute leukemia
Authors: Maaike Van Trimpont, Amanda M. Schalk, Yanti De Visser, Hien Anh Nguyen, Lindy Reunes, Katrien Vandemeulebroecke, Evelien Peeters, Ying Su, Hyun Lee, Philip L. Lorenzi, Wai-Kin Chan, Veerle Mondelaers, Barbara De Moerloose, Tim Lammens, Steven Goossens, Pieter Van Vlierberghe, Arnon Lavie
Year: 2022
Venue: Haematologica
DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2022.281390
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890011

Abstract:
Asparagine is a non-essential amino acid since it can either be taken up via the diet or synthesized by asparagine synthetase. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells do not express asparagine synthetase or express it only minimally, which makes them completely dependent on extracellular asparagine for their growth and survival. This dependency makes ALL cells vulnerable to treatment with L-asparaginase, an enzyme that hydrolyzes asparagine. To date, all clinically approved L-asparaginases have significant L-glutaminase co-activity, associated with non-immune related toxic side effects observed during therapy. Therefore, reduction of L-glutaminase co-activity with concomitant maintenance of its anticancer L-asparaginase effect may effectively improve the tolerability of this unique drug. Previously, we designed a new alternative variant of Erwinia chrysanthemi ( ErA ; Erwinaze) with decreased L-glutaminase co-activity, while maintaining its L-asparaginase activity, by the introduction of three key mutations around the active site ( ErA -T M) . However, Erwinaze and our ErA -TM variant have very short half-lives in vivo. Here, we show that the fusion of ErA -TM with an albumin binding domain (ABD)-tag significantly increases its in vivo persistence. In addition, we evaluated the in vivo therapeutic efficacy of ABD- ErA -TM in a B-ALL xenograft model of SUP-B15. Our results show a comparable long-lasting durable antileukemic effect between the standard-of-care pegylated-asparaginase and ABD- ErA -TM L-asparaginase, but with fewer co-glutaminase-related acute side effects. Since the toxic side effects of current L-asparaginases often result in treatment discontinuation in ALL patients, this novel ErA -TM variant with ultra-low L-glutaminase co-activity and long in vivo persistence may have great clinical potential.
