Title: A Comprehensive Map of Mobile Element Insertion Polymorphisms in Humans
Authors: Chip Stewart, Deniz Kural, Michael P. Strömberg, Jerilyn A. Walker, Miriam K. Konkel, Adrian M. Stütz, Alexander E. Urban, Fabian Grubert, Hugo Y. K. Lam, Wan-Ping Lee, Michele Busby, Amit R. Indap, Erik Garrison, Chad Huff, Jinchuan Xing, Michael P. Snyder, Lynn B. Jorde, Mark A. Batzer, Jan O. Korbel, Gabor T. Marth
Year: 2011
Venue: PLoS Genetics
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002236
Paper ID: pmc_PMC3158055

Abstract:
As a consequence of the accumulation of insertion events over evolutionary time, mobile elements now comprise nearly half of the human genome. The Alu, L1, and SVA mobile element families are still duplicating, generating variation between individual genomes. Mobile element insertions (MEI) have been identified as causes for genetic diseases, including hemophilia, neurofibromatosis, and various cancers. Here we present a comprehensive map of 7,380 MEI polymorphisms from the 1000 Genomes Project whole-genome sequencing data of 185 samples in three major populations detected with two detection methods. This catalog enables us to systematically study mutation rates, population segregation, genomic distribution, and functional properties of MEI polymorphisms and to compare MEI to SNP variation from the same individuals. Population allele frequencies of MEI and SNPs are described, broadly, by the same neutral ancestral processes despite vastly different mutation mechanisms and rates, except in coding regions where MEI are virtually absent, presumably due to strong negative selection. A direct comparison of MEI and SNP diversity levels suggests a differential mobile element insertion rate among populations. Author Summary We embarked on this study to explore the 1000 Genomes Project (1000GP) pilot dataset as a substrate for Mobile Element Insertion (MEI) discovery and analysis. MEI is already well known as a significant component of genetic variation in the human population. However the full extent and effects of MEI can only be assessed by accurate detection in large whole-genome sequencing efforts such as the 1000GP. In this study we identified 7,380 distinct genomic locations of variant MEI and carried out rigorous validation experiments that confirmed the high accuracy of the detected events. We were able to measure the frequency of each variant in three continental population groups and found that inherited MEI variants propagate through populations in much the same way as single nucleotide polymorphisms, except that MEI are more strongly suppressed in protein coding parts of the genome. We also found evidence that the MEI mutation rate has not been constant over human population history, rather that different populations appear to have different characteristic MEI mutation rates.
