Title: Potential health risk assessment for heavy metals in Tilapia fish of different spatiotemporal monitoring patterns in Kafr El-Shaikh and El-Faiyum Governorates of Egypt
Authors: Mohamed Bedair M. Ahmed, Gomaa N. Abdel-Rahman, Mohamed E.M. Ali, Essam M. Saleh, Osama M. Morsy, Mohamed R. Elgohary, Magdy M. Saad, Yasser M. Awad
Year: 2023
Venue: Toxicology Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2023.04.004
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313912

Abstract:
Heavy metal (HMs) levels were evaluated in aquacultured tilapia fish collected from two highly producing districts in Egypt (Kafr El-Sheikh and El-Faiyum Governorates) during two seasons (autumn 2021 and spring 2022). As well, health risk assessment of exposure to HMs in tilapia fish was studied. The results revealed that six HMs: As, Cu, Fe, Mn, Cr and Zn were predominant in fish samples of the first season (autumn 2021), while most of HMs were existed in samples of the second season. All samples of the two seasons were free of Hg. Notably, autumn season’s fish samples showed higher concentrations of HMs than those of the spring season. As well, Kafr El-Sheikh farms were highly contaminated with HMs than those of El-Faiyum governorate. Risk assessment results indicated that the THQ values of As substantially exceeded 1 either for Kafr El-Shaikh samples (3.15 ± 0.5) or for El-Faiyum samples (2.39 ± 0.8) of autumn season. Meanwhile, THQ values for all HMs, in spring season 2021, were less than one whole. These results indicated a potential health risk arising from the exposure to HMs, As in particular, in fish samples of autumn season as compared to those of spring season. Therefore, there is a need for remedial applications, in such polluted aquacultures in autumn season, which are currently under investigation as an integral part of the research project that funded the current study. Graphical Abstract ga1 Highlights • Kafr El-Sheikh farms were highly contaminated with heavy metals as compared to those of El-Faiyum governorate. • Autumn season's fish samples contained higher concentrations of heavy metals than those of the spring season. • A potential risk was found from the exposure to heavy metals, arsenic element in particular, in all fish samples of autumn season, while no potential risk was found in samples of spring season.
