Title: Effects of bee pollen inclusion on performance and carcass characteristics of broiler chickens
Authors: Munyadziwa Felicia Dorcus Nemauluma, Tlou Grace Manyelo, Jones Wilfred Ng'ambi, Sekobane Daniel Kolobe, Emmanuel Malematja
Year: 2023
Venue: Poultry Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2023.102628
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140164

Abstract:
This study was conducted to determine the effect of bee pollen ( BP ) inclusion on performance and carcass characteristics in broiler chickens. A total of 240 Ross 308 broiler chicks were allocated to 4 treatments (BP inclusion levels of 0, 4, 8, or 12 g/kg DM feed) in a randomized complete block design with sex as a block having 3 replicates with 10 chickens per replicate. After 21 d, the chickens remained in their treatment groups and fed standard grower diet. The results of the current study revealed that BP inclusion had positively improved ( P < 0.05) average weekly feed intake ( FI ), body weight ( BW ), body weight gain ( BWG ), and feed conversion ratio ( FCR ) in both sexes. However, the apparent nutrient digestibility, metabolizable energy ( ME ), and nutrient digestibility were not affected by the dietary BP. Furthermore, carcass yield in both sexes was improved ( P < 0.05) by BP inclusion levels. In contrast, meat pH, shear force, and sensory evaluation in both sexes were not affected ( P > 0.05). The results suggest that the broiler chicks can utilize bioactive compounds in BP when supplemented in the starter diets and subsequently improve their growth parameters throughout the growing period as well as carcass yield at slaughter age. These positive improvements could be due to high quality amino acids, essential oils, vitamins, and minerals of BP. Therefore, it is concluded that BP inclusion level of 12 g/kg or more in the starter diets could have positive effects on growth performance and carcass yield at slaughter age without causing adverse effects on meat physico-chemical properties and sensory evaluation in both male and female broiler chickens.
