Title: Broad and direct interaction between TLR and Siglec families of pattern recognition receptors and its regulation by Neu1
Authors: Guo-Yun Chen, Nicholas K Brown, Wei Wu, Zahra Khedri, Hai Yu, Xi Chen, Diantha van de Vlekkert, Alessandra D'Azzo, Pan Zheng, Yang Liu
Year: 2014
Venue: eLife
DOI: 10.7554/eLife.04066
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4168287

Abstract:
Both pathogen- and tissue damage-associated molecular patterns induce inflammation through toll-like receptors (TLRs), while sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin superfamily lectin receptors (Siglecs) provide negative regulation. Here we report extensive and direct interactions between these pattern recognition receptors. The promiscuous TLR binders were human SIGLEC-5/9 and mouse Siglec-3/E/F. Mouse Siglec-G did not show appreciable binding to any TLRs tested. Correspondingly, Siglece deletion enhanced dendritic cell responses to all microbial TLR ligands tested, while Siglecg deletion did not affect the responses to these ligands. TLR4 activation triggers Neu1 translocation to cell surface to disrupt TLR4:Siglec-E interaction. Conversely, sialidase inhibitor Neu5Gc2en prevented TLR4 ligand-induced disruption of TLR4:Siglec E/F interactions. Absence of Neu1 in hematopoietic cells or systematic treatment with sialidase inhibitor Neu5Gc2en protected mice against endotoxemia. Our data raised an intriguing possibility of a broad repression of TLR function by Siglecs and a sialidase-mediated de-repression that allows positive feedback of TLR activation during infection. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.04066.001 eLife digest Many living things have an immune system that is able to detect invading bacteria, viruses and other pathogens and trigger a response targeted against the threat before it causes lasting damage. Cells employ a number of different receptors that can detect these pathogens or the molecules that they produce. In animals, toll-like receptors (or TLRs) are a type of protein that recognizes patterns or structures that are found in many different types of pathogen, known as pathogen-associated molecular patterns (or PAMPs). Injured cells release proteins that are also recognized by toll-like receptors and are called danger associated molecular patterns (or DAMPs). An immune response is triggered when PAMPs and DAMPs are recognized, but the response must be properly controlled. If it goes awry, it can result in an over-activation of the immune cells that can lead to life-threatening conditions, one of which is called sepsis. Siglecs are proteins that bind to a sugar molecule, which is found attached to many other proteins, and are known to inhibit the immune response. However, it remained unclear how Siglecs do this and if they can interact directly with toll-like receptors. Chen et al. now show that most (although not all) Siglecs bind to TLRs, and that deleting the gene for a Siglec protein that can bind to multiple TLRs boosted the response of the immune cells to a range of microbial PAMPs. Deleting the gene for another Siglec that did not bind to any TLRs had no effect on the immune response. Chen et al. suggest that the Siglec proteins that interact with toll-like receptors act a bit like a brake that slows down the activation of the receptors. However, when an immune cell detects a foreign molecule through a TLR, an enzyme called Neu1 is relocated from the inside of the cell to the cell's surface, where it removes the sugar molecules from the TLRs. This disrupts the interaction between the TLRs and the Siglecs, thus activating the receptors and triggering an immune response against the invading pathogen or damaged cells. This represents a newly discovered mechanism that can regulate the signaling of TLRs. Chen et al. also show that a chemical compound that stops the function of the Neu1 enzyme prevents the toll-like receptors—and hence the immune cells—from becoming overly activated. Mice treated with this compound are protected against sepsis triggered by the presence of a bacterial PAMP. These results suggest that the Neu1 enzyme may be a promising new target for treating sepsis; further work will now be required to assess the potential side effects caused by inhibiting this enzyme. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.04066.002
