Title: The role of daughters in relation to their mother’s cervical cancer diagnosis and treatment in Guatemala: a descriptive study
Authors: Hallie Dau, Anna Gottschlich, Lynn Metz, Natalia Pineda, Andres Pineda, Christian S. Alvarez, Kristin Bevliacqua, Carlos Mendoza-Montano, Gina Ogilvie, Alvaro Rivera-Andrade, Eduardo Gharzouzi, Rafael Meza
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Women's Health
DOI: 10.1186/s12905-023-02305-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10053719

Abstract:
Purpose There is currently no information on how caregivers for women diagnosed with cervical cancer in Guatemala, particularly daughters, are affected by their supportive role. This study’s objective was to describe the support role of caregivers in the country, with a focus on daughters with a mother diagnosed with cervical cancer. Methods This analysis utilizes data from a cross-sectional study which aimed to understand pathways to cervical cancer care. Women seeking cervical cancer treatment at the Instituto de Cancerologia (INCAN) in Guatemala City, Guatemala and their companions were surveyed. Descriptive statistics were calculated. Results One hundred forty-five women seeking treatment and 71 companions participated in the study. Patient's daughters were most frequently reported as the person who provided the most support (51%) and as the most reported to have encouraged the patient to seek care. Furthermore, daughters were noted as the person most reported to fulfill the major household and livelihood roles of the patient while they were seeking or receiving treatment (38.0%). Most daughters reported that they were missing housework (77%), childcare (63%), and income-earning activities (60%) to attend the appointment with their mothers. Conclusion Our study suggests that in Guatemala cervical cancer patient's daughters have a significant support role in their mother’s cancer diagnosis. Furthermore, we found that while caring for their mothers, daughters in Guatemala are often unable to participate in their primary labor activities. This highlights the additional burden that cervical cancer has on women in Latin America.
