Title: Quality Improvement in Delirium Health Literacy in Older Adult Patients and Their Caregivers Attending a Geriatric Clinic
Authors: Gohar Azhar, Shakshi Sharma, Onna Lau, Bader Alkharisi, Anil Anandam, Sakiru Isa, Priya Mendiratta, Amanda K Pangle, Karen Coker, Jeanne Wei
Year: 2022
Venue: Clinical Interventions in Aging
DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S388325
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805724

Abstract:
Background Delirium is a common medical condition that is highly prevalent in older adults who are at increased risk for its development with any illness, post-surgery or during hospitalization. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the health literacy of older adult patients and their caregivers about delirium, offer a brief educational intervention, and reevaluate their knowledge post intervention. Materials and Methods We conducted a quality improvement project, focused on delirium health literacy in older adult patients ≥60 years and their caregivers. Delirium knowledge of participants was evaluated in a pre-education survey after which they were given a delirium education booklet to read. A post-education delirium survey was conducted within 2–3 weeks of the educational intervention. Chi-square test was used to analyze the knowledge base of older adults. Results The study population consisted of a total of 70 older adults who participated in pre-education (n=35) and post-education (n=35) surveys. Older adult patients and their caregivers had significant knowledge gaps about the potential causes or etiologies, risk factors, symptomatology, and prevention of delirium in the pre-education survey. After the educational intervention, in the post-education survey, there were overall improvements in knowledge base of older adults in differentiating delirium with dementia (43% vs 94%, p<0.01) recognizing signs and symptoms (77% vs 94%, p<0.05), complications (76% vs 100%, p<0.01) and identifying the etiological factors associated with delirium. Conclusion The quality improvement project demonstrated that older adults and caregivers have significant knowledge deficits about the common condition of delirium. This study also demonstrated that older adults were able to improve their health literacy regarding delirium after the intervention. Appropriate education on delirium for patients and caregivers might help in earlier identification, prevention, and better overall management of delirium.
