Title: PocketOptimizer 2.0: A modular framework for computer‐aided ligand‐binding design
Authors: Jakob Noske, Josef Paul Kynast, Dominik Lemm, Steffen Schmidt, Birte Höcker
Year: 2023
Venue: Protein Science : A Publication of the Protein Society
DOI: 10.1002/pro.4516
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9793973

Abstract:
Abstract The ability to design customized proteins to perform specific tasks is of great interest. We are particularly interested in the design of sensitive and specific small molecule ligand‐binding proteins for biotechnological or biomedical applications. Computational methods can narrow down the immense combinatorial space to find the best solution and thus provide starting points for experimental procedures. However, success rates strongly depend on accurate modeling and energetic evaluation. Not only intra‐ but also intermolecular interactions have to be considered. To address this problem, we developed PocketOptimizer, a modular computational protein design pipeline, that predicts mutations in the binding pockets of proteins to increase affinity for a specific ligand. Its modularity enables users to compare different combinations of force fields, rotamer libraries, and scoring functions. Here, we present a much‐improved version––PocketOptimizer 2.0. We implemented a cleaner user interface, an extended architecture with more supported tools, such as force fields and scoring functions, a backbone‐dependent rotamer library, as well as different improvements in the underlying algorithms. Version 2.0 was tested against a benchmark of design cases and assessed in comparison to the first version. Our results show how newly implemented features such as the new rotamer library can lead to improved prediction accuracy. Therefore, we believe that PocketOptimizer 2.0, with its many new and improved functionalities, provides a robust and versatile environment for the design of small molecule‐binding pockets in proteins. It is widely applicable and extendible due to its modular framework. PocketOptimizer 2.0 can be downloaded at https://github.com/Hoecker-Lab/pocketoptimizer .
