Title: Association of Antiphospholipid Antibodies with Clinical Manifestations in Children with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
Authors: Gordana Petrovic, Srdjan Pasic, Ivan Soldatovic
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12041424
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967991

Abstract:
Background: The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies on the clinical and laboratory manifestations, disease activity and outcomes of the disease in patients with childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (cSLE). Methods: We conducted a 10-year cross-sectional study with a retrospective analysis of clinical and laboratory parameters and outcome of the disease (kidney, nervous system involvement, thrombosis). For the purpose of the study, patients were divided into cohort groups based on the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLA), named the aPLA positive group, or their absence, named the aPLA negative group. Values of aPLA were defined in reference laboratories. The disease activity was measured by the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K) score, whereas tissue damage degree was measured by Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics/American College of Rheumatology-Damage Index (SLICC/ACR DI; SDI; DI). Results: Research in our center showed that patients with cSLE often had hematological, cutaneous, and non-thrombotic neurological manifestations. Antiphospholipid antibodies may be present transiently or permanently. A significant change in the titer value was observed in the IgG isotype of aCLA. The presence of higher values of IgM β2GP1 at the beginning indicates that higher disease activity can be expected. Higher disease activity correlates with greater tissue damage. Additionally, it has been shown that aPLA positive patients have two and a half times higher risk of tissue damage than aPLA negative ones. Conclusion: Our study shows that the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies in patients with childhood onset systemic lupus erythematosus may indicate a higher risk of tissue damage, but since it is a rare disease in childhood, prospective and multicenter studies are necessary to assess the importance of the presence of these antibodies.
