Title: Tumor Habitat Analysis Using Longitudinal Physiological MRI to Predict Tumor Recurrence After Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Brain Metastasis
Authors: Da Hyun Lee, Ji Eun Park, NakYoung Kim, Seo Young Park, Young-Hoon Kim, Young Hyun Cho, Jeong Hoon Kim, Ho Sung Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Korean Journal of Radiology
DOI: 10.3348/kjr.2022.0492
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971843

Abstract:
Objective It is difficult to predict the treatment response of tissue after stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) because radiation necrosis (RN) and tumor recurrence can coexist. Our study aimed to predict tumor recurrence, including the recurrence site, after SRS of brain metastasis by performing a longitudinal tumor habitat analysis. Materials and Methods Two consecutive multiparametric MRI examinations were performed for 83 adults (mean age, 59.0 years; range, 27–82 years; 44 male and 39 female) with 103 SRS-treated brain metastases. Tumor habitats based on contrast-enhanced T1- and T2-weighted images (structural habitats) and those based on the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) images (physiological habitats) were defined using k-means voxel-wise clustering. The reference standard was based on the pathology or Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncologycriteria for brain metastases (RANO-BM). The association between parameters of single-time or longitudinal tumor habitat and the time to recurrence and the site of recurrence were evaluated using the Cox proportional hazards regression analysis and Dice similarity coefficient, respectively. Results The mean interval between the two MRI examinations was 99 days. The longitudinal analysis showed that an increase in the hypovascular cellular habitat (low ADC and low CBV) was associated with the risk of recurrence (hazard ratio [HR], 2.68; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.46–4.91; P = 0.001). During the single-time analysis, a solid low-enhancing habitat (low T2 and low contrast-enhanced T1 signal) was associated with the risk of recurrence (HR, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.01–2.35; P = 0.045). A hypovascular cellular habitat was indicative of the future recurrence site (Dice similarity coefficient = 0.423). Conclusion After SRS of brain metastases, an increased hypovascular cellular habitat observed using a longitudinal MRI analysis was associated with the risk of recurrence (i.e., treatment resistance) and was indicative of recurrence site. A tumor habitat analysis may help guide future treatments for patients with brain metastases.
