Title: Technological Solutions for Human Movement Analysis in Obese Subjects: A Systematic Review
Authors: Riccardo Monfrini, Gianluca Rossetto, Emilia Scalona, Manuela Galli, Veronica Cimolin, Nicola Francesco Lopomo
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23063175
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10059733

Abstract:
Obesity has a critical impact on musculoskeletal systems, and excessive weight directly affects the ability of subjects to realize movements. It is important to monitor the activities of obese subjects, their functional limitations, and the overall risks related to specific motor tasks. From this perspective, this systematic review identified and summarized the main technologies specifically used to acquire and quantify movements in scientific studies involving obese subjects. The search for articles was carried out on electronic databases, i.e., PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. We included observational studies performed on adult obese subjects whenever reporting quantitative information concerning their movement. The articles must have been written in English, published after 2010, and concerned subjects who were primarily diagnosed with obesity, thus excluding confounding diseases. Marker-based optoelectronic stereophotogrammetric systems resulted to be the most adopted solution for movement analysis focused on obesity; indeed, wearable technologies based on magneto-inertial measurement units (MIMUs) were recently adopted for analyzing obese subjects. Further, these systems are usually integrated with force platforms, so as to have information about the ground reaction forces. However, few studies specifically reported the reliability and limitations of these approaches due to soft tissue artifacts and crosstalk, which turned out to be the most relevant problems to deal with in this context. In this perspective, in spite of their inherent limitations, medical imaging techniques—such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and biplane radiography—should be used to improve the accuracy of biomechanical evaluations in obese people, and to systematically validate less-invasive approaches.
