Title: Distinct early and late neural mechanisms regulate feature-specific sensory adaptation in the human visual system
Authors: Reuben Rideaux, Rebecca K. West, Dragan Rangelov, Jason B. Mattingley
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216192120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9963156

Abstract:
Significance Sensory adaptation is widely assumed to reflect a form of efficient coding in the brain, but its underlying neural mechanisms are debated. On one account, sensitivity to prolonged or repeated input is reduced due to neuronal fatigue. Alternatively, adaptation might reflect sharpening of neuronal selectivity over time. To adjudicate between these accounts, we recorded whole-brain activity from human observers before and after they adapted to visual grating stimuli, and used inverted encoding to characterize multivariate changes in neural representations. We identified patterns of neural activity consistent with both fatigue and sharpening accounts. Critically, however, these two mechanisms operate at different points in the sensory processing cascade, likely reflecting distinct feedforward and feedback interactions, to produce qualitatively distinct effects on perception. A canonical feature of sensory systems is that they adapt to prolonged or repeated inputs, suggesting the brain encodes the temporal context in which stimuli are embedded. Sensory adaptation has been observed in the central nervous systems of many animal species, using techniques sensitive to a broad range of spatiotemporal scales of neural activity. Two competing models have been proposed to account for the phenomenon. One assumes that adaptation reflects reduced neuronal sensitivity to sensory inputs over time (the “fatigue” account); the other posits that adaptation arises due to increased neuronal selectivity (the “sharpening” account). To adjudicate between these accounts, we exploited the well-known “tilt aftereffect”, which reflects adaptation to orientation information in visual stimuli. We recorded whole-brain activity with millisecond precision from human observers as they viewed oriented gratings before and after adaptation, and used inverted encoding modeling to characterize feature-specific neural responses. We found that both fatigue and sharpening mechanisms contribute to the tilt aftereffect, but that they operate at different points in the sensory processing cascade to produce qualitatively distinct outcomes. Specifically, fatigue operates during the initial stages of processing, consistent with tonic inhibition of feedforward responses, whereas sharpening occurs ~200 ms later, consistent with feedback or local recurrent activity. Our findings reconcile two major accounts of sensory adaptation, and reveal how this canonical process optimizes the detection of change in sensory inputs through efficient neural coding.
