Title: Prospective randomized multicenter noninferiority clinical trial evaluating the use of TFN-advanced TM proximal femoral nailing system (TFNA) for the treatment of proximal femur fracture in a Chinese population
Authors: Lidan Zhang, Zhijun Pan, Xiaohui Zheng, Qiugen Wang, Peifu Tang, Fang Zhou, Fan Liu, Bin Yu, Frankie K. L. Leung, Alex Wu, Suzanne Hughson, Zhuo Chen, Michael Blauth, Anthony Rosner, Charisse Sparks, Manyi Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Trauma and Emergency Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00068-023-02231-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229738

Abstract:
Purpose To evaluate whether the 24-weeks postoperative fracture union rate for the investigational TFNA intramedullary nail was non-inferior compared to the control product PFNA-II. Methods The study was a prospective, randomized, single-blind, noninferiority dual-arm study drawing from 9 trauma centers across China, between November 2018 and September 2020, with follow-up measurements at 24 weeks after internal fixation. The full analysis data set (FAS [Intent-to-Treat]) was analyzed and is summarized here. The primary outcome was fracture union rate, a composite score combining clinical and radiographic assessment. Secondary endpoints comprised (a) clinical outcomes including (1) SF-12, (2) Harris Hip, and (3) EQ-5D Scores, (b) radiographic incidence of complications such as loosening or cut-out requiring revision, (c) revision rates, (d) reoperation rates, and (e) adverse events, including 24-weeks revision and reoperation rates. Results Both TFNA and PFNA-II group fracture healing rates were 100% at 24 weeks; TFNA was therefore shown to be non-inferior to PFNA-II. With baseline data matched in all parameters except age in both the TFNA and PFNA-II groups, comparisons of union rates, SF-12, Harris Hip, and EQ-5D Scores yielded p values > 0.05 indicating no significant difference between the two groups, further supporting the noninferiority of TFNA. In both groups, revision and re-operation rates were 0, and the incidences of serious adverse events were 19.4% and 17.4%, respectively. Conclusion In terms of fracture union rate at 24 weeks, the DePuy Synthes Trochanteric Fixation Nail Advanced (TFNA) was not inferior to the marketed Proximal Femoral Nail Antirotation (PFNA-II) device produced by the same manufacturer. Secondary and safety outcomes showed no significant differences between the two groups. Registration Registration was completed at ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03635320 .
