Title: Staff competence in caring for LGBTQ+ patients in the paediatric emergency department
Authors: Sean T Kelleher, Michael J Barrett, Sheena Durnin, Patrick Fitzpatrick, Agnes Higgins, Dani Hall
Year: 2023
Venue: Archives of Disease in Childhood
DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2022-325151
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10314017

Abstract:
Objective This study aimed to assess the competency of paediatric emergency department (PED) multidisciplinary staff in caring for LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning, + inclusive of all identities) adolescents. Design This was an observational study within which participants were required to complete the LGBT-Development of Clinical Skills Scale self-assessment tool of clinical competence. Setting It was conducted across three PEDs and one urgent care centre pertaining to the Children’s Health Ireland healthcare group. Participants Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers were eligible to participate. Exclusion criteria: non-front facing staff; prior completion of an eLearning module intended to serve as a future educational intervention. Main outcome measures Participants were assessed on: (1) attitudinal awareness towards LGBTQ+ individuals; (2) knowledge of LGBTQ+ health issues and (3) clinical preparedness in caring for LGBTQ+ patients. Each domain is scored out of a maximum of 7 points. Results 71 eligible participants completed the study. 40/71 (56%) were doctors, and 31/71 (44%) were nurses. The mean score for attitudinal awareness was 6.54/7 (SD 0.59), indicating overall positive attitudes. The mean score for knowledge was lower (5.34/7, SD 1.03) and lowest for clinical preparedness (3.39/7, SD 0.94). Participants were less confident in caring for transgender than LGB patients and scored very low when asked if they had received adequate training in caring for transgender young people (2.11/7). Conclusions This study demonstrates positive attitudes towards LGBTQ+ patients among PED staff. However, there was a gap in knowledge and clinical preparedness. Increased training in caring for LGBTQ+ young people is necessary.
