Title: Synthesis and Characterization of SPIONs Encapsulating Polydopamine Nanoparticles and Their Test for Aqueous Cu 2+ Ion Removal
Authors: Giulia Siciliano, Antonio Turco, Anna Grazia Monteduro, Elisabetta Fanizza, Alessandra Quarta, Roberto Comparelli, Elisabetta Primiceri, M. Lucia Curri, Nicoletta Depalo, Giuseppe Maruccio
Year: 2023
Venue: Materials
DOI: 10.3390/ma16041697
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967601

Abstract:
The removal of pollutants, such as heavy metals, aromatic compounds, dyes, pesticides and pharmaceuticals, from water is still an open challenge. Many methods have been developed and exploited for the purification of water from contaminants, including photocatalytic degradation, biological treatment, adsorption and chemical precipitation. Absorption-based techniques are still considered among the most efficient and commonly used approaches thanks to their operational simplicity. In recent years, polydopamine-coated magnetic nanoparticles have emerged for the uptake of heavy metals in water treatment, since they combine specific affinity towards pollutants and magnetic separation capacity. In this context, this work focuses on the synthesis of polydopamine (PDA)-coated Super Paramagnetic Iron Oxide Nanoparticles (PDA@SPIONs) as adsorbents for Cu 2+ ions, designed to serve as functional nanostructures for the removal of Cu 2+ from water by applying a magnetic field. The synthetic parameters, including the amount of SPIONs and PDA, were thoroughly investigated to define their effects on the nanostructure features and properties. Subsequently, the ability of the magnetic nanostructures to bind metal ions was assessed on Cu 2+ -containing solutions. A systematic investigation of the prepared functional nanostructures was carried out by means of complementary spectroscopic, morphological and magnetic techniques. Inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) measurements were performed in order to estimate the Cu 2+ binding ability. The overall results indicate that these nanostructures hold great promise for future bioremediation applications.
