Title: Precordial pain caused by a hemocholecyst due to gallbladder cancer: A case report
Authors: Goshi Fujimoto
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107851
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803851

Abstract:
Introduction and importance A hemocholecyst refers to hemorrhage originating from and confined to the gallbladder. Intraluminal hemorrhage of the gallbladder is a rare symptom of gallbladder cancer (GBC), which can cause hemorrhagic cholecystitis. The symptoms of hemorrhagic cholecystitis are similar to those of classic acute cholecystitis where precordial pain is atypical. Here, we report a case of a precordial pain-inducing hemocholecyst due to GBC. Case presentation An 86-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department due to persistent, sudden-onset precordial pain. Electrocardiogram (ECG) findings and cardiac enzyme levels were normal; however, severe anemia (hemoglobin 6.4 g/dL) was noted. Computed tomography (CT) showed a tense gallbladder with a heterogeneous, high-density area. Contrast-enhanced CT did not reveal contrast extravasation or obvious mass lesions. Considering the risk of hemorrhagic cholecystitis, we performed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Operative findings were normal, however, the gallbladder lumen was filled with blood clots, while the gallbladder body had a papillary, infiltrating-type lesion. Clinical discussion Histopathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of moderately differentiated gallbladder adenocarcinoma. The precordial pain disappeared postoperatively. Due to the patient's age and general condition, no additional gallbladder bed resection or S4/5 hepatic bisegmentectomy and lymphadenectomy were performed. Conclusion A hemocholecyst can cause precordial pain; therefore, abdominal imaging may be useful for diagnosing patients with nonspecific precordial pain. In addition, GBC should be considered as a potential cause of hemocholecysts. Early diagnosis and urgent cholecystectomy should be performed to prevent gallbladder perforation in patients with hemocholecysts. Highlights • Intraluminal hemorrhage of the gallbladder is a rare symptom of gallbladder cancer. • A hemocholecyst can cause chest pain. • Chest pain (rare) in cholecystitis may be due to the cardiobiliary vagal reflex. • Early diagnosis and urgent cholecystectomy can prevent gallbladder perforation.
