Title: A protein restricted diet induces a stable increased fat storage phenotype in flies
Authors: Oscar Hilary Asiimwe, John Rubaihayo, Sheu Oluwadare Sulaiman, Lawrence Obado Osuwat, Keneth Iceland Kasozi
Year: 2023
Venue: Toxicology Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2023.06.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313861

Abstract:
Background Scientific evidence has revealed possible confounders in diet induced obesity models of Drosophila melanogaster . High Sugar Diet (HSD) induction of obesity in flies has been associated with fly hyperosmolarity and glucotoxicity, while High Fat Diet (HFD) induction has been associated with lipotoxicity. The objective of this study was to assess for a healthy obesity phenotype by comparison of fly survival, physio-chemical and biochemical changes associated with HSD, HFD and Protein Restricted Diet (PRD) obesity induction models of male Drosophila melanogaster . Here, we provide information on a PRD as the plausible option in obesity research not involving cancer, diabetes, glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity studies. Methods Obesity was induced by exposing Drosophila melanogaster white mutant w 1118 to four experimental diets for four weeks. Group 1 was fed regular food (control), group 2 was fed a 0.5% less yeast than in regular feed (PRD), group 3 was fed a 30% w/v sucrose to regular cornmeal food (HSD) and group 4 was fed a 10% w/v food-grade coconut oil to regular cornmeal food (HFD). Peristaltic waves were measured on 3rd instar larvae of all experimental groups. Negative geotaxis, fly survival, body mass, catalase activity, triglycerides (TG/TP), sterol, and total protein were measured in adult Drosophila melanogaster after four weeks. Results Triglycerides (TG/TP) and total protein levels were significantly higher in HSD phenotype. Sterols were higher in HFD phenotype. Though catalase enzyme activity was highest in PRD phenotype, this activity was not statistically significant when compared to that of HSD and HFD phenotypes. However, PRD phenotype had the lowest mass, highest survival rate and the highest negative geotaxis, thus demonstrating a balanced, stable and more viable metabolic status in the experimental model. Conclusion A protein restricted diet induces a stable increased fat storage phenotype in Drosophila melanogaster .
