Title: The Association of Body Mass Index and Waist Circumference with the Risk of Achilles Tendon Problems: A Nationwide Population-Based Longitudinal Cohort Study
Authors: Hyeong Sik Ahn, Hyun Jung Kim, Jin Soo Suh, Sayada Zartasha Kazmi, Tae Uk Kang, Jun Young Choi
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22238
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232319

Abstract:
Background The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association of body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) with the risk of Achilles tendinopathy (AT) or Achilles tendon rupture (ATR), using data from a nationwide population-based cohort. We hypothesized that higher BMI and WC would be independently associated with the increased risk of AT or ATR. In addition, a higher WC may potentiate the association between BMI and the risk of Achilles tendon problems. Methods We used the National Health Insurance database that covers the entire South Korean population to follow up subjects who participated in the National Health Screening Program (NHSP) from January 2009 to December 2010. The NHSP data include subjects’ BMI, WC, blood test results, blood pressure, and information about lifestyle. Among the subjects, those who were newly diagnosed as having AT or ATR before December 31, 2017, were selected. To examine the association of the variables with the risk of AT or ATR and determine whether the effect of higher BMI varied according to WC, multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression was used. Results Among a total of 16,830,532 subjects, 125,814 and 31,424 developed AT and ATR, respectively. A higher BMI showed a greater association with the increased risk of ATR than AT (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 3.49 vs. 1.96). A higher WC was associated with the increased risk of AT (adjusted HR, 1.22), but not ATR. In a separate analysis, the association between BMI and the risk of AT was higher when subjects had higher WC as compared to those with lower WC, being most significant in individuals with both higher BMI and higher WC. Conclusions Higher BMI was more associated with the increased risk of ATR than AT. Moreover, a high central fat distribution played an independent and potentiating role in the development of AT. This implies the greater importance of a high central fat distribution contributing to the development of AT in obese people.
