Title: Privacy-preserving data sharing via probabilistic modeling
Authors: Joonas Jälkö, Eemil Lagerspetz, Jari Haukka, Sasu Tarkoma, Antti Honkela, Samuel Kaski
Year: 2021
Venue: Patterns
DOI: 10.1016/j.patter.2021.100271
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8276015

Abstract:
Summary Differential privacy allows quantifying privacy loss resulting from accession of sensitive personal data. Repeated accesses to underlying data incur increasing loss. Releasing data as privacy-preserving synthetic data would avoid this limitation but would leave open the problem of designing what kind of synthetic data. We propose formulating the problem of private data release through probabilistic modeling. This approach transforms the problem of designing the synthetic data into choosing a model for the data, allowing also the inclusion of prior knowledge, which improves the quality of the synthetic data. We demonstrate empirically, in an epidemiological study, that statistical discoveries can be reliably reproduced from the synthetic data. We expect the method to have broad use in creating high-quality anonymized data twins of key datasets for research. Highlights • Probabilistic modeling produces strongly anonymized synthetic data • The usability of the synthetic data is conditional on the quality of the models • Same statistical discoveries can be made from synthetic data as with original data The bigger picture Open data are a key component of open science. Unrestricted access to datasets would be necessary for the transparency and reproducibility that the scientific method requires. So far, openness has been at odds with privacy requirements, which has prohibited the opening up of sensitive data even after pseudonymization, which does not protect against privacy breaches using side information. A recent solution for the data-sharing problem is to release synthetic data drawn from privacy-preserving generative models. We propose to interpret privacy-preserving data sharing as a modeling task, allowing us to incorporate prior knowledge of the data-generation process into the generator model using modern probabilistic modeling methods. We demonstrate that this can significantly increase the utility of the generated data. Generating synthetic data using privacy-preserving models is a promising method for sharing sensitive data. This paper proposes to view synthetic data generation through probabilistic modeling, which allows the improvement of data generation by incorporating prior knowledge into the generative model. The proposed approach allows us to counteract reduction in quality, which results from the obfuscation required for privacy, and as a result produces high-quality synthetic data with strong privacy guarantees.
