Title: Gatekeeper mutations activate FGF receptor tyrosine kinases by destabilizing the autoinhibited state
Authors: Alida Besch, William M. Marsiglia, Moosa Mohammadi, Yingkai Zhang, Nathaniel J. Traaseth
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2213090120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974468

Abstract:
Significance Anticancer drugs inhibiting the kinase domain of receptor tyrosine kinases block downstream phosphorylation necessary for cellular signaling and growth. However, a major impediment to successful cancer therapy is the emergence of drug resistance mutations at a residue situated at the kinase hinge region between the N- and C-lobes, which provides fitness advantages for tumor growth. In this work, we used kinase assays, NMR spectroscopy, and MD simulations to determine the mechanism of kinase activation from drug-resistant gatekeeper mutations. We found that these mutations destabilize the autoinhibited conformation of the kinase by weakening the hydrophobic spine and modulating the conformation of the conserved DFG motif, thereby leading to the conclusion that gatekeeper mutations increase in the population of the active state. Many types of human cancers are being treated with small molecule ATP-competitive inhibitors targeting the kinase domain of receptor tyrosine kinases. Despite initial successful remission, long-term treatment almost inevitably leads to the emergence of drug resistance mutations at the gatekeeper residue hindering the access of the inhibitor to a hydrophobic pocket at the back of the ATP-binding cleft. In addition to reducing drug efficacy, gatekeeper mutations elevate the intrinsic activity of the tyrosine kinase domain leading to more aggressive types of cancer. However, the mechanism of gain-of-function by gatekeeper mutations is poorly understood. Here, we characterized fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinases harboring two distinct gatekeeper mutations using kinase activity assays, NMR spectroscopy, bioinformatic analyses, and MD simulations. Our data show that gatekeeper mutations destabilize the autoinhibitory conformation of the DFG motif locally and of the kinase globally, suggesting they impart gain-of-function by facilitating the kinase's ability to populate the active state.
