Title: Olaparib First-Line Maintenance Monotherapy in BRCA-Mutated Epithelial Ovarian Cancer: Descriptive Analysis of the First French Real-World Data Study
Authors: Charlotte Bellier, Laurence Gladieff, Fanny Le Du, Dominique Berton, Charlotte Bonnard, Delphine Suau, Anne-Céline Richard, Ophélie Brenner, Amir Lahouegue, Gilles Freyer, Anne Floquet, Sophie Frank, Maria Kfoury
Year: 2023
Venue: Drugs - Real World Outcomes
DOI: 10.1007/s40801-022-00349-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232683

Abstract:
Background Olaparib, a poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor, was approved by the European Commission in June 2019, following the results of the SOLO-1/GOG 3004 trial as maintenance monotherapy in adult patients with BRCA-mutated epithelial ovarian cancer. Objective This study aimed to provide a descriptive analysis of the first real-world data from patients with BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer who received olaparib as first-line maintenance monotherapy in the French cohort Temporary Authorisation for Use (Autorisation Temporaire d’Utilisation de cohorte, ATUc) programme from 11 March, 2019 to 16 January, 2020. Methods Eligible patients were aged 18 years and over with confirmed epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal or Fallopian tube cancer and a deleterious or suspected deleterious germline or somatic BRCA 1/2 mutation. Patients were in complete or partial clinical response at the end of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Olaparib maintenance therapy was initiated within 8 weeks of the patients’ last dose of chemotherapy. Real-world data were collected through treatment access request forms completed by physicians. Clinical and safety data were collected monthly until the end of the ATUc programme. Results A total of 107 centres in metropolitan France and the French Overseas Departments and Territories requested the inclusion for 238 patients, of whom 194 received maintenance olaparib. In total, 87.6% of the primary tumour locations were ovary, the most common histology was high-grade serous (93.0%) and the most common International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (Fédération Internationale de Gynécologie et d’Obstétrique) stage was IIIC (56.8%). BRCA testing was performed in routine practice, prior to inclusion into the ATUc programme. All patients had a BRCA mutation: 52.5% had a somatic mutation, 38.4% had a germinal mutation and 9.1% had germinal and somatic mutations. Twenty-four (12%) patients experienced serious adverse drug reactions at the last safety follow-up (17 February, 2020). The most common were anaemia (12 [6%] patients), neutropenia (3 [2%] patients) and thrombocytopenia (3 [2%] patients). Conclusions The rapid enrolment into the ATUc programme highlighted the strong unmet need for patients with ovarian cancer and a BRCA mutation in first-line maintenance treatment. Olaparib was well tolerated and no new safety signals were observed in this real-world patient population.
