Title: NOMA-Based VLC Systems: A Comprehensive Review
Authors: Syed Agha Hassnain Mohsan, Muhammad Sadiq, Yanlong Li, Alexey V. Shvetsov, Svetlana V. Shvetsova, Muhammad Shafiq
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23062960
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10051813

Abstract:
The enhanced proliferation of connected entities needs a deployment of innovative technologies for the next generation wireless networks. One of the critical concerns, however, is the spectrum scarcity, due to the unprecedented broadcast penetration rate nowadays. Based on this, visible light communication (VLC) has recently emerged as a viable solution to secure high-speed communications. VLC, a high data rate communication technology, has proven its stature as a promising complementary to its radio frequency (RF) counterpart. VLC is a cost-effective, energy-efficient, and secure technology that exploits the current infrastructure, specifically within indoor and underwater environments. Yet, despite their appealing capabilities, VLC systems face several limitations which constraint their potentials such as LED’s limited bandwidth, dimming, flickering, line-of-sight (LOS) requirement, impact of harsh weather conditions, noise, interference, shadowing, transceiver alignment, signal decoding complexity, and mobility issue. Consequently, non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) has been considered an effective technique to circumvent these shortcomings. The NOMA scheme has emerged as a revolutionary paradigm to address the shortcomings of VLC systems. The potentials of NOMA are to increase the number of users, system’s capacity, massive connectivity, and enhance the spectrum and energy efficiency in future communication scenarios. Motivated by this, the presented study offers an overview of NOMA-based VLC systems. This article provides a broad scope of existing research activities of NOMA-based VLC systems. This article aims to provide firsthand knowledge of the prominence of NOMA and VLC and surveys several NOMA-enabled VLC systems. We briefly highlight the potential and capabilities of NOMA-based VLC systems. In addition, we outline the integration of such systems with several emerging technologies such as intelligent reflecting surfaces (IRS), orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM), multiple-input and multiple-output (MIMO) and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Furthermore, we focus on NOMA-based hybrid RF/VLC networks and discuss the role of machine learning (ML) tools and physical layer security (PLS) in this domain. In addition, this study also highlights diverse and significant technical hindrances prevailing in NOMA-based VLC systems. We highlight future research directions, along with provided insights that are envisioned to be helpful towards the effective practical deployment of such systems. In a nutshell, this review highlights the existing and ongoing research activities for NOMA-based VLC systems, which will provide sufficient guidelines for research communities working in this domain and it will pave the way for successful deployment of these systems.
