Title: Impact of protocatechuic acid on alleviation of pulmonary damage induced by cyclophosphamide targeting peroxisome proliferator activator receptor, silent information regulator type-1, and fork head box protein in rats
Authors: Abeer Salama, Rania Elgohary, Mohamed M. Amin, Sahar Abd Elwahab
Year: 2023
Venue: Inflammopharmacology
DOI: 10.1007/s10787-023-01156-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229476

Abstract:
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is a chemotherapeutic agent that causes pulmonary damage by generating free radicals and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Pulmonary damage has a high mortality rate due to the severe inflammation and edema occurred in lung. PPARγ/Sirt 1 signaling has been shown to be cytoprotective effect against cellular inflammatory stress and oxidative injury. Protocatechuic acid (PCA) is a potent Sirt1 activator and exhibits antioxidant as well as anti-inflammatory properties. The current study aims to investigate the therapeutic impacts of PCA against CP-induced pulmonary damage in rats. Rats were assigned randomly into 4 experimental groups. The control group was injected with a single i.p injection of saline. CP group was injected with a single i.p injection of CP (200 mg/kg). PCA groups were administered orally with PCA (50 and 100 mg/kg; p.o.) once daily for 10 consecutive days after CP injection. PCA treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the protein levels of MDA, a marker of lipid peroxidation, NO and MPO along with a significant increase in GSH and catalase protein levels. Moreover, PCA downregulated anti-inflammatory markers as IL-17, NF-κB, IKBKB, COX-2, TNF-α, and PKC and upregulated cytoprotective defenses as PPARγ, and SIRT1. In addition, PCA administration ameliorated FoxO-1 elevation, increased Nrf2 gene expression, and reduced air alveoli emphysema, bronchiolar epithelium hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration induced by CP. PCA might represent a promising adjuvant to prevent pulmonary damage in patients receiving CP due to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects with cytoprotective defenses.
