Title: Chemical interactions that govern the structures of metals
Authors: Yuanhui Sun, Lei Zhao, Chris J. Pickard, Russell J. Hemley, Yonghao Zheng, Maosheng Miao
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2218405120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974499

Abstract:
Significance The driving force determining the structures of simple metals has been a matter of debate for over a century and has become more puzzling with the discovery of highly complex structures that emerge at high pressures in these materials. Conventional free-electron-based theories fail to provide a unified and predictive mechanism due to missing key components, i.e., local bonding and orbital interactions. These missing components can be represented by quasi-atoms and corresponding local orbitals, a consideration of which can explain the stability of both simple and complex different structures of elemental metals over a wide range of conditions. The results have implications for the behavior of more chemically complex materials, including alloys, intermetallics, hydrides, ionic compounds, and two-dimensional materials. Most metals adopt simple structures such as body-centered cubic (BCC), face-centered cubic (FCC), and hexagonal close-packed (HCP) structures in specific groupings across the periodic table, and many undergo transitions to surprisingly complex structures on compression, not expected from conventional free-electron-based theories of metals. First-principles calculations have been able to reproduce many observed structures and transitions, but a unified, predictive theory that underlies this behavior is not yet in hand. Discovered by analyzing the electronic properties of metals in various lattices over a broad range of sizes and geometries, a remarkably simple theory shows that the stability of metal structures is governed by electrons occupying local interstitial orbitals and their strong chemical interactions. The theory provides a basis for understanding and predicting structures in solid compounds and alloys over a broad range of conditions.
