Title: Social support and links to quality of life among middle-aged and older autistic adults
Authors: Rebecca A Charlton, Goldie A McQuaid, Gregory L Wallace
Year: 2022
Venue: Autism
DOI: 10.1177/13623613221081917
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806477

Abstract:
Social support has a positive impact on quality of life (QoL) in neurotypical older adults and young autistic adults, but the association for older autistic adults is unclear. Autistic adults ( n = 388; mean age = 40–83 years) were recruited via Simons Powering Autism Research for Knowledge (SPARK) Research Match. Participants completed questionnaires online querying demographic information, depression, and anxiety symptomatology, QoL (physical, psychological, social, environmental, and autism-specific) and social support (instrumental, subjective, and social interactions). Regression analyses examined whether different aspects of social support contributed to models explaining each domain of QoL. Models explaining QoL were significant. Subjective social support significantly contributed to the models for all aspects of QoL; social interactions contributed to the models for Physical and Psychological QoL, whereas instrumental support contributed to models for social, environmental and autism-specific QoL. Social support is an important contributor to the QoL of middle-aged and older autistic adults, after accounting for demographic factors and depression. Further studies are required to understand whether age-related changes in social support and QoL are the same for autistic as non-autistic older adults in order to identify and implement appropriate support. Lay abstract Social support can take many forms, such as practical help, time spent socially with others, or the satisfaction with personal relationships. Social support is known to affect quality of life (QoL) in both non-autistic older and autistic young adults. QoL reflects how satisfied an individual is with their life either overall or in a certain area. We know little about middle-aged and older autistic adults’ experiences of social support or QoL. In this study, 388 adults aged 40–83 years old, completed online questionnaires asking about background such as age and sex, depression and anxiety symptoms, QoL (physical, psychological, social, environmental, and autism-specific), and different types of social support. Even after taking into account background, depression, and anxiety, social support was important for individuals’ QoL. To our knowledge this is the first paper to examine the relationship between social support and QoL in middle-aged and older autistic adults. Improving social support may have a significant impact on the QoL of older autistic adults. Future studies should examine whether age-related changes in social support (size, content, and arrangement of social networks) that are common in non-autistic aging, also occur among older autistic adults.
