Title: Monkeypox and HIV in the Canary Islands: A Different Pattern in a Mobile Population
Authors: Christian Betancort-Plata, Laura Lopez-Delgado, Nieves Jaén-Sanchez, Tomás Tosco-Nuñez, Laura Suarez-Hormiga, Carmen Lavilla-Salgado, Elena Pisos-Álamo, Araceli Hernández-Betancor, Michele Hernández-Cabrera, Cristina Carranza-Rodríguez, Marta Briega-Molina, José-Luis Pérez-Arellano
Year: 2022
Venue: Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease
DOI: 10.3390/tropicalmed7100318
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9608065

Abstract:
Background. The clinical and epidemiological data of the recent outbreak of monkeypox (MPX) differ from previous reports. One difference is the epidemiological profile; the disease mainly affects a subgroup of MSM (men who have sex with men) with high-risk sexual behaviors, frequently persons living with human immunodeficiency virus (PLHIV). Methods. In this observational analysis, all patients with PCR (polymerase chain reaction)-confirmed MPX attending an Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine Unit in Gran Canaria (Spain) between May and July 2022 were considered. Results. In total, 42 men were included; 88% were identified as MSM, with a median age of 40 years. Only 43% were born in Spain. All the patients had systemic symptoms and skin lesions. The distribution of lesions was more frequent in the genital/anal region, and the involvement of hands and feet was less common. Fever and lymphadenopathies were less frequent than in other series. Other unusual manifestations were proctitis, pharyngitis and penile–scrotal edema. Half of the patients had other associated infections (mainly STIs, sexually transmitted infections), and 60% of the monkeypox patients had PLHIV (People Living with HIV). When comparing the clinical characteristics between HIV-positive and -negative patients, we found three main differences: (i) a higher frequency of perioral lesions, (ii) a higher frequency of pharyngitis and (iii) a higher number of sexually transmitted infections in HIV-positive patients. Conclusions. The clinical findings in this outbreak of MPX had great variability in presentation. Several clinical differences were found in PLHIV-coinfected patients.
