Title: Bronchoalveolar lavage hemosiderosis in lightly active or sedentary horses
Authors: Ananya Mahalingam‐Dhingra, Daniela Bedenice, Melissa R. Mazan
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16692
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229344

Abstract:
Abstract Background Hemosiderophages in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) are commonly ascribed to exercise‐induced pulmonary hemorrhage (EIPH). Little information exists regarding the presence of these cells in horses that perform light or no work and that are referred for respiratory problems. Objectives Evaluate the presence of hemosiderophages in BALF of horses suspected of respiratory disease without history of or risk factors for EIPH and determine predictors of hemosiderophages in BALF in this population. Methods Observational retrospective cross‐sectional study using STROBE (Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology) guidelines. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cytology reports of 353 horses evaluated for respiratory disease between 2012 and 2022 at the Cummings School for Veterinary Medicine were reviewed retrospectively. Horses with a history or likelihood of having performed past strenuous exercise were removed, and the remaining 91 horses were divided into hemosiderin‐positive (HSD‐POS) and hemosiderin‐negative groups based on Perls' Prussian blue staining. Potential predictors for the presence of hemosiderophages in BALF (history, clinical evaluation, baseline lung function, airway reactivity, BALF cytology, and hemosiderin score) were compared between the 2 groups, using univariate and multivariate analyses. Results Horses with a diagnosis of severe equine asthma (sEA; odds ratio, 11.1; 95% confidence interval, 3.2‐38.5; P < .001) were significantly more likely to be HSD‐POS than horses with mild‐to‐moderate equine asthma. Conclusions and Clinical Importance Hemosiderophages were found in the BALF cytology in a subset of horses that perform light or no work and presented for respiratory signs; these cells were found more frequently in horses with sEA. The link between hemosiderophages and sEA highlights previously unstudied pathology associated with this common disease.
