Title: A Rapid Carbapenemase Genes Detection Method with Xpert Carba-R from Positive Blood Cultures Compared with NG-Test Carba 5 and Sequencing
Authors: Yuqiao Xu, Weijuan Song, Peijun Huang, Yaning Mei, Yan Zhang, Ting Xu
Year: 2022
Venue: Infection and Drug Resistance
DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S392035
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805712

Abstract:
Objective The objective of the current study was to evaluate the performance of Xpert Carba-R for the direct detection and identification of carbapenemase genes from positive blood cultures. Methods Pathogens which extracted from positive blood cultures and identified using MALDI-TOF MS as Enterobacterales were included in this study. Xpert Carba-R was used for the rapid detection of carbapenemase genes from positive blood cultures. NG-Test CARBA 5 and polymerase-chain reaction (PCR) sequencing were used for the detection of carbapenemases and carbapenemase genes in positive blood culture isolates, respectively. Finally, antibiotic susceptibility tests were conducted using the VITEK-2 Compact system. Results A total of 133 positive blood cultures of Enterobacterales were collected and 27 of them were detected to carry carbapenemase genes using Xpert Carba-R. In comparison with PCR sequencing results, the sensitivity and specificity of Xpert Carba-R and NG-Test CARBA 5 were calculated as 100%. Additionally, Xpert Carba-R could significantly shorten the turnaround time by directly detecting positive blood cultures comparing with NG-Test CARBA 5. For 27 carbapenem-producing strains, the resistance rates of carbapenems and aztreonam were 96.3% and 92.6%, respectively. Strains carrying the bla KPC gene were all sensitive to ceftazidime–avibactam. All strains were sensitive to tigecycline and colistin. Conclusion Xpert Carba-R is suitable for the rapid detection of main carbapenemase genes from positive blood cultures with high sensitivity and specificity. In comparison with NG-Test CARBA 5 and PCR sequencing methods, the timely and convenient method can be a useful test to guide optimal therapy and infection control.
