Title: Local and Systemic Overexpression of COMP-Ang1 Induces Ang1/Tie2-Related Thrombocytopenia and SDF-1/CXCR4-Dependent Anemia
Authors: Hyun-Jaung Sim, Govinda Bhattarai, Min-Hye Kim, Han-Sol So, Sher Bahadur Poudel, Eui-Sic Cho, Sung-Ho Kook, Jeong-Chae Lee
Year: 2023
Venue: Stem Cells
DOI: 10.1093/stmcls/sxac080
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887089

Abstract:
Abstract While supplemental angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) improves hematopoiesis, excessive Ang1 induces bone marrow (BM) impairment, hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) senescence, and erythropoietic defect. Here, we examined how excessive Ang1 disturbs hematopoiesis and explored whether hematopoietic defects were related to its level using K14-Cre;c-Ang1 and Col2.3-Cre;c-Ang1 transgenic mice that systemically and locally overexpress cartilage oligomeric matrix protein-Ang1, respectively. We also investigated the impacts of Tie2 inhibitor and AMD3100 on hematopoietic development. Transgenic mice exhibited excessive angiogenic phenotypes, but K14-Cre;c-Ang1 mice showed more severe defects in growth and life span with higher presence of Ang1 compared with Col2.3-Cre;c-Ang1 mice. Dissimilar to K14-Cre;c-Ang1 mice, Col2.3-Cre;c-Ang1 mice did not show impaired BM retention or senescence of HSCs, erythropoietic defect, or disruption of the stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1)/CXCR4 axis. However, these mice exhibited a defect in platelet production depending on the expression of Tie2 and globin transcription factor 1 (GATA-1), but not GATA-2, in megakaryocyte progenitor (MP) cells. Treatment with Tie2 inhibitor recovered GATA-1 expression in MP cells and platelet production without changes in circulating RBC in transgenic mice. Consecutive AMD3100 administration not only induced irrecoverable senescence of HSCs but also suppressed formation of RBC, but not platelets, via correlated decreases in number of erythroblasts and their GATA-1 expression in B6 mice. Our results indicate that genetic overexpression of Ang1 impairs hematopoietic development depending on its level, in which megakaryopoiesis is preferentially impaired via activation of Ang1/Tie2 signaling, whereas erythropoietic defect is orchestrated by HSC senescence, inflammation, and disruption of the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis. Graphical Abstract Graphical Abstract Genetic overexpression of COMP-Ang1 impairs BM microenvironment, induces HSC senescence, and leads to anemic and thrombocytopenic disorders depending on its systemic and local overexpression through a dysregulated activation of the Ang1/Tie2 signaling and/or SDF-1/CXCR4 retention axis.
