Title: Metabolomic analysis of human plasma sample after exposed to high altitude and return to sea level
Authors: Jiayue Gao, Ming Zhao, Xiang Cheng, Xiangpei Yue, Fangbin Hao, Hui Wang, Lian Duan, Cong Han, Lingling Zhu
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0282301
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10058093

Abstract:
When ascending to high altitude, it is a rigorous challenge to people who living in the low altitude area to acclimatize to hypoxic environment. Hypoxia exposure can cause dramatic disturbances of metabolism. This longitudinal cohort study was conducted to delineate the plasma metabolomics profile following exposure to altitude environments and explore potential metabolic changes after return to low altitude area. 25 healthy volunteers living in the low altitude area (Nor; 40m) were transported to high altitude (HA; 3,650m) for a 7-day sojourn before transported back to the low altitude area (HAP; 40m). Plasma samples were collected on the day before ascending to HA, the third day on HA(day 3) and the fourteenth day after returning to low altitude(14 day) and analyzed using UHPLC-MS/MS tools and then the data were subjected to multivariate statistical analyses. There were 737 metabolites were obtained in plasma samples with 133 significantly changed metabolites. We screened 13 differential metabolites that were significantly changed under hypoxia exposure; enriched metabolic pathways under hypoxia exposure including tryptophan metabolism, purine metabolism, regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes; We verified and relatively quantified eight targeted candidate metabolites including adenosine, guanosine, inosine, xanthurenic acid, 5-oxo-ETE, raffinose, indole-3-acetic acid and biotin for the Nor and HA group. Most of the metabolites recovered when returning to the low altitude area, however, there were still 6 metabolites that were affected by hypoxia exposure. It is apparent that high-altitude exposure alters the metabolic characteristics and two weeks after returning to the low altitude area a small portion of metabolites was still affected by high-altitude exposure, which indicated that high-altitude exposure had a long-term impact on metabolism. This present longitudinal cohort study demonstrated that metabolomics can be a useful tool to monitor metabolic changes exposed to high altitude, providing new insight in the attendant health problem that occur in response to high altitude.
