Title: Geographically persistent clusters of La Crosse virus disease in the Appalachian region of the United States from 2003 to 2021
Authors: Corey Allen Day, Agricola Odoi, Rebecca Trout Fryxell
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0011065
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9888679

Abstract:
La Crosse virus (LACV) is a mosquito-borne pathogen that causes more pediatric neuroinvasive disease than any other arbovirus in the United States. The geographic focus of reported LACV neuroinvasive disease (LACV-ND) expanded from the Midwest into Appalachia in the 1990s, and most cases have been reported from a few high-risk foci since then. Here, we used publicly available human disease data to investigate changes in the distribution of geographic LACV-ND clusters between 2003 and 2021 and to investigate socioeconomic and demographic predictors of county-level disease risk in states with persistent clusters. We used spatial scan statistics to identify high-risk clusters from 2003–2021 and a generalized linear mixed model to identify socioeconomic and demographic predictors of disease risk. The distribution of LACV-ND clusters was consistent during the study period, with an intermittent cluster in the upper Midwest and three persistent clusters in Appalachia that included counties in east Tennessee / western North Carolina, West Virginia, and Ohio. In those states, county-level cumulative incidence was higher when more of the population was white and when median household income was lower. Public health officials should target efforts to reduce LACV-ND incidence in areas with consistent high risks. Author summary La Crosse virus (LACV) is a mosquito-borne pathogen that can cause neuroinvasive disease (e.g., encephalitis and meningitis), usually in children. In the 1990s, the geographic focus of reported LACV neuroinvasive disease (LACV-ND) shifted from the Midwest into the Appalachian region, and most cases have been reported from a few areas in those regions since then. Here, we used publicly available human disease data to investigate changes in geographic clusters of LACV-ND from 2003–2021 and to identify socioeconomic and demographic variables that are associated with disease risk. We found a consistent distribution of areas with elevated disease risk (i.e., clusters), with three persistent clusters in Appalachia and one intermittent cluster in the upper Midwest. In states with persistent clusters, county-level cumulative incidence increased when more of the population was white and when median household income was lower. Public health officials should work to reduce LACV-ND incidence in the areas where disease risk is consistently high.
