Title: The legacy effects of rubber defoliation period on the refoliation phenology, leaf disease, and latex yield
Authors: De-Li Zhai, Jian-Chu Xu
Year: 2023
Venue: Plant Diversity
DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2022.01.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975472

Abstract:
The leaf phenology of trees has received particular attention for its crucial role in the global water and carbon balances, ecosystem, and species distribution. However, current studies on leaf phenology have mainly focused on temperate trees, while few studies including tropical trees. Little attention has been paid to globally extensive industrial plantations. Rubber plantations are important to both the local and global economies. In this study, we investigated the legacy effects of defoliation phenology on the following year's leaf flushing, leaf disease, and also latex yield of rubber trees, an economically important tree to local people and the world. Results show that extended duration of defoliation increased the subsequent duration of refoliation and rates of infection by powdery mildew disease, but led to reduced latex yield in March. This legacy effect of rubber defoliation may relate to the carbohydrate reserved in the trees. A longer duration of defoliation would consume more reserved carbohydrates, reducing available reserves for disease defense and latex production. Extended duration of defoliation period was associated with either a lower temperature before the cessation of latex tapping in October–November and/or a higher temperature after the cessation of latex tapping in December–January. Leaf falling signals the end of photosynthetic activities in deciduous trees. Thus, the leaf falling phenology will impact ecological processes involving rubber trees. Our findings indicated that the inclusion of defoliation periods in future rubber trees' research, will be crucial to furthering our understanding of leaf flushing, powdery mildew disease, and latex yield. Highlights • The duration of defoliation of rubber trees has legacy effects on the phenology, powdery mildew disease, and latex yield in March of next year. • The autumn temperature (Sep–Nov) and winter temperature (Dec–Jan) had a contrary significant effect on the duration of defoliation. • The critical role of defoliation may link to the carbohydrate reserved in the trees.
