Title: A pluripotent developmental state confers a low fidelity of chromosome segregation
Authors: Chenhui Deng, Amanda Ya, Duane A. Compton, Kristina M. Godek
Year: 2023
Venue: Stem Cell Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2022.12.008
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968987

Abstract:
Summary During in vitro propagation, human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) frequently become aneuploid with incorrect chromosome numbers due to mitotic chromosome segregation errors. Yet, it is not understood why hPSCs exhibit a low mitotic fidelity. Here, we investigate the mechanisms responsible for mitotic errors in hPSCs and show that the primary cause is lagging chromosomes in anaphase with improper merotelic microtubule attachments. Accordingly, short-term treatment (<24 h) with small molecules that prolong mitotic duration or destabilize chromosome microtubule attachments reduces merotelic errors and lagging chromosome rates, although hPSCs adapt and lagging chromosome rates rebound upon long-term (>24 h) microtubule destabilization. Strikingly, we also demonstrate that mitotic error rates correlate with developmental potential decreasing or increasing upon loss or gain of pluripotency, respectively. Thus, a low mitotic fidelity is an inherent and conserved phenotype of hPSCs. Moreover, chromosome segregation fidelity depends on developmental state in normal human cells. Graphical abstract Highlights • The most frequent mitotic error in hPSCs is lagging chromosomes • Short-term proTAME or UMK57 treatment suppresses mitotic errors in hPSCs • hPSCs rapidly adapt upon prolonged UMK57 treatment • Mitotic errors increase upon gain and decrease upon loss of pluripotency Godek and colleagues show that mitotic error rates correlate with pluripotency and that prolonging mitosis or destabilizing chromosome microtubule attachments suppress mitotic errors in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs); however, hPSCs rapidly adapt. These results demonstrate that a low fidelity of chromosome segregation is inherent and conserved in hPSCs and that chromosome segregation fidelity depends on developmental state.
