Title: Evolution of piggyBac Transposons in Apoidea
Authors: Xueyuan Li, Zhongxia Guan, Feng Wang, Yali Wang, Emmanuel Asare, Shasha Shi, Zheguang Lin, Ting Ji, Bo Gao, Chengyi Song
Year: 2023
Venue: Insects
DOI: 10.3390/insects14040402
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140906

Abstract:
Simple Summary Bees are one of the mega-diverse class of insects in Hymenoptera. As predators and the main crops pollinator, bees play an essential role in improving crop yield and the quality whiles providing substantial economic importance. Transposable elements (TEs) exist widely in nature and they make up a significant portion of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes. piggyBac ( PB ) transposons, belonging to DNA transposons, have been identified in plants, fungi, and animals. The advantages of the modified PB transposon system or high transposable efficiency and broad host ranges have led to their widespread application in transgenesis, mutagenesis, and gene therapy. At present, there is no systematic report on PB transposon in bees. Therefore, this study focused on annotating the transposons of the PB superfamily in bees to reveal the distribution, diversity, structural characteristics, evolutionary pattern and activity of PB transposons in the available genomes of bees. Abstract In this study, we investigated the presence of piggyBac ( PB ) transposons in 44 bee genomes from the Apoidea order, which is a superfamily within the Hymenoptera, which includes a large number of bee species crucial for pollination. We annotated the PB transposons in these 44 bee genomes and examined their evolution profiles, including structural characteristics, distribution, diversity, activity, and abundance. The mined PB transposons were divided into three clades, with uneven distribution in each genus of PB transposons in Apoidea. The complete PB transposons we discovered are around 2.23–3.52 kb in length and encode transposases of approximately 580 aa, with terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) of about 14 bp and 4 bp (TTAA) target-site duplications. Long TIRs (200 bp, 201 bp, and 493 bp) were also detected in some species of bees. The DDD domains of the three transposon types were more conserved, while the other protein domains were less conserved. Generally, most PB transposons showed low abundance in the genomes of Apoidea. Divergent evolution dynamics of PB were observed in the genomes of Apoidea. PB transposons in some identified species were relatively young, whiles others were older and with some either active or inactive. In addition, multiple invasions of PB were also detected in some genomes of Apoidea. Our findings highlight the contribution of PB transposons to genomic variation in these species and suggest their potential as candidates for future gene transfer tools.
