Title: Evolution of plasticity prevents postinvasion extinction of a native forb
Authors: Petr Dostál
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2118866119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371648

Abstract:
Significance The potential of evolutionary rescue (ER) to prevent population extinctions in deteriorating environments is increasingly being appreciated. However, evidence suggesting that ER underlies the postinvasion persistence of native flora remains scarce. By exploring a native forb’s population density and trait changes along a replicated invasion chronosequence, I found a U-shaped population trajectory that paralleled the evolution of plasticity to shade. Whereas genotypes from intact, more open sites exhibited a shade-tolerance strategy, the reduced light availability at invaded sites selected for a shade-avoidance strategy. These shifts in shade-response strategies were adaptive and secured postinvasion population persistence. The findings suggest that native populations may survive because of adaptive evolutionary changes operating on the same timescale as the invasion-induced stress. Exotic plant invaders pose a serious threat to native plants. However, despite showing inferior competitive ability and decreased performance, native species often subsist in invaded communities. The decline of native populations is hypothesized to be halted and eventually reversed if adaptive evolutionary changes can keep up with the environmental stress induced by invaders, that is, when population extinction is prevented by evolutionary rescue (ER). Nevertheless, evidence for the role of ER in postinvasion persistence of native flora remains scarce. Here, I explored the population density of a native forb, Veronica chamaedrys , and evaluated the changes in the shade-responsive traits of its populations distributed along the invasion chronosequence of an exotic transformer, Heracleum mantegazzianum , which was replicated in five areas. I found a U-shaped population trajectory that paralleled the evolution of plasticity to shade. Whereas V. chamaedrys genotypes from intact, more open sites exhibited a shade-tolerance strategy (pronounced leaf area/mass ratio), reduced light availability at the invaded sites selected for a shade-avoidance strategy (greater internode elongation). Field experiments subsequently confirmed that the shifts in shade-response strategies were adaptive and secured postinvasion population persistence, as indicated by further modeling. Alternative ecological mechanisms (habitat improvement or arrival of immigrants) were less likely explanations than ER for the observed population rebound, although the contribution of maternal effects cannot be dismissed. These results suggest that V. chamaedrys survived because of adaptive evolutionary changes operating on the same timescale as the invasion-induced stress, but the generality of ER for postinvasion persistence of native plants remains unknown.
