Title: An analysis of patient dose received during cone-beam computed tomography in relation to scan settings and imaging indications as seen in a dental institution in order to establish institutional diagnostic reference levels
Authors: Kuo Feng Hung, Liuling Hui, Andy Wai Kan Yeung, Reinhilde Jacobs, Yiu Yan Leung, Michael M. Bornstein
Year: 2022
Venue: Dentomaxillofacial Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/dmfr.20200529
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10043612

Abstract:
Objectives: To investigate the dose-area product (DAP) of cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) examinations for different scan settings and imaging indications, and to establish institutional diagnostic reference levels (DRLs) for dose optimisation. Methods: A retrospective analysis of the DAP values of 3568 CBCT examinations taken from two different devices at the Prince Philip Dental Hospital, Hong Kong between 2016 and 2021 was performed. Patient- (age, gender, and imaging indication) and imaging-related (CBCT device, field-of-view (FOV), and voxel size) were correlated with the DAPs. The indication-oriented third-quartile DAP values were compared with DRLs from the UK, Finland, and Switzerland. The obtained third-quartile DAPs lower than the national DRLs and those for which no national DRLs have been proposed were used to establish institutional DRLs. Results: In the investigated CBCTs, the DAP value for large FOV scans was significantly lower than medium/small FOVs. CBCTs with a small voxel size exhibited a significantly higher DAP than those with a medium/large voxel size. CBCTs for endodontic, periodontal, orthodontic, or orthognathic evaluation exhibited a significantly higher DAP than other indications. Twelve indication-oriented institutional DRLs were established and five of them were lower than the national DRLs: third molars (229 mGy×cm 2 ), jaw cysts/tumours (410 mGy×cm 2 ), maxillary sinus pathology (520 mGy×cm 2 ), developing dentition (164 mGy×cm 2 ), and periapical lesions (564 mGy×cm 2 ). Conclusions: CBCT examinations for endodontic, periodontal, orthodontic, or orthognathic evaluation may deliver a higher radiation dose to the patient than other imaging tasks. A periodic review of the patient dose from CBCT imaging and establishment of institutional DRLs for specific clinical settings are needed for monitoring patient dose and to optimise indication-oriented scanning protocols.
