Title: Lymph-derived chemokines direct early neutrophil infiltration in the lymph nodes upon Staphylococcus aureus skin infection
Authors: Jingna Xue, Yujia Lin, Darellynn Oo, Jianbo Zhang, Ava Zardynezhad, Flavia Neto de Jesus, Matthew Stephens, Luiz G. N. de Almeida, Daniel Young, Antoine Dufour, Shan Liao
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2111726119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371737

Abstract:
Significance An efficient innate immune response is essential in the host’s immune protection during infection before adaptive immunity intervenes. We show that the earliest neutrophil infiltration to the lymph node via high endothelial venules is facilitated by lymph flow via delivering chemokines (i.e., Chemokine [C-X-C motif] 1/2 [CXCL1/2]) from the site of infection, which is much faster and more efficient than delivering lymphatic trafficking cells. Lymphatic dysfunction during skin inflammation impairs neutrophil migration and bacteria clearance. Our finding demonstrates the significance of lymph flow in innate immune protection and explains how preexisting inflammation conditions, such as dermatitis, can compromise lymph flow and result in higher risk and prolonged infections. A large number of neutrophils infiltrate the lymph node (LN) within 4 h after Staphylococcus aureus skin infection (4 h postinfection [hpi]) and prevent systemic S. aureus dissemination. It is not clear how infection in the skin can remotely and effectively recruit neutrophils to the LN. Here, we found that lymphatic vessel occlusion substantially reduced neutrophil recruitment to the LN. Lymphatic vessels effectively transported bacteria and proinflammatory chemokines (i.e., Chemokine [C-X-C motif] motif 1 [CXCL1] and CXCL2) to the LN. However, in the absence of lymph flow, S. aureus alone in the LN was insufficient to recruit neutrophils to the LN at 4 hpi. Instead, lymph flow facilitated the earliest neutrophil recruitment to the LN by delivering chemokines (i.e., CXCL1, CXCL2) from the site of infection. Lymphatic dysfunction is often found during inflammation. During oxazolone (OX)-induced skin inflammation, CXCL1/2 in the LN was reduced after infection. The interrupted LN conduits further disrupted the flow of lymph and impeded its communication with high endothelial venules (HEVs), resulting in impaired neutrophil migration. The impaired neutrophil interaction with bacteria contributed to persistent infection in the LN. Our studies showed that both the flow of lymph from lymphatic vessels to the LN and the distribution of lymph in the LN are critical to ensure optimal neutrophil migration and timely innate immune protection in S. aureus infection.
