Title: Predicting recurrence of depression using cardiac complexity in individuals tapering antidepressants
Authors: Sandip V. George, Yoram K. Kunkels, Arnout Smit, Marieke Wichers, Evelien Snippe, Arie M. van Roon, Harriëtte Riese
Year: 2023
Venue: Translational Psychiatry
DOI: 10.1038/s41398-023-02474-7
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229565

Abstract:
It is currently unknown whether the complexity and variability of cardiac dynamics predicts future depression and whether within-subject change herein precedes the recurrence of depression. We tested this in an innovative repeated single-subject study in individuals who had a history of depression and were tapering their antidepressants. In 50 individuals, electrocardiogram (ECG) derived Interbeat-interval (IBI) time-series data were collected for 5 min every morning and evening, for 4 months. Usable data were obtained from 14 participants who experienced a transition (i.e., a clinically significant increase in depressive symptoms) and 14 who did not. The mean, standard deviation, Higuchi dimension and multiscale entropy, calculated from IBIs, were examined for time trends. These quantifiers were also averaged over a baseline period and compared between the groups. No consistent trends were observed in any quantifier before increases in depressive symptoms within individuals. The entropy baseline levels significantly differed between the two groups (morning: P value < 0.001, Cohen’s d = −2.185; evening: P value < 0.001, Cohen’s d = −1.797) and predicted the recurrence of depressive symptoms, in the current sample. Moreover, higher mean IBIs and Higuchi dimensions were observed in individuals who experienced transitions. While we found little evidence to support the existence of within- individual warning signals in IBI time-series data preceding an upcoming depressive transition, our results indicate that individuals who taper antidepressants and showed lower entropy of cardiac dynamics exhibited a higher chance of recurrence of depression. Hence, entropy could be a potential digital phenotype for assessing the risk of recurrence of depression in the short term while tapering antidepressants.
