Title: Resting-State EEG Connectivity at High-Frequency Bands and Attentional Performance Dysfunction in Stabilized Schizophrenia Patients
Authors: Ta-Chuan Yeh, Cathy Chia-Yu Huang, Yong-An Chung, Sonya Youngju Park, Jooyeon Jamie Im, Yen-Yue Lin, Chin-Chao Ma, Nian-Sheng Tzeng, Hsin-An Chang
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59040737
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141517

Abstract:
Background and Objectives : Attentional dysfunction has long been viewed as one of the fundamental underlying cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. There is an urgent need to understand its neural underpinning and develop effective treatments. In the process of attention, neural oscillation has a central role in filtering information and allocating resources to either stimulus-driven or goal-relevant objects. Here, we asked if resting-state EEG connectivity correlated with attentional performance in schizophrenia patients. Materials and Methods : Resting-state EEG recordings were obtained from 72 stabilized patients with schizophrenia. Lagged phase synchronization (LPS) was used to measure whole-brain source-based functional connectivity between 84 intra-cortical current sources determined by eLORETA (exact low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography) for five frequencies. The Conners’ Continuous Performance Test-II (CPT-II) was administered for evaluating attentional performance. Linear regression with a non-parametric permutation randomization procedure was used to examine the correlations between the whole-brain functional connectivity and the CPT-II measures. Results : Greater beta-band right hemispheric fusiform gyrus (FG)-lingual gyrus (LG) functional connectivity predicted higher CPT-II variability scores (r = 0.44, p < 0.05, corrected), accounting for 19.5% of variance in the CPT-II VAR score. Greater gamma-band right hemispheric functional connectivity between the cuneus (Cu) and transverse temporal gyrus (TTG) and between Cu and the superior temporal gyrus (STG) predicted higher CPT-II hit reaction time (HRT) scores (both r = 0.50, p < 0.05, corrected), accounting for 24.6% and 25.1% of variance in the CPT-II HRT score, respectively. Greater gamma-band right hemispheric Cu-TTG functional connectivity predicted higher CPT-II HRT standard error (HRTSE) scores (r = 0.54, p < 0.05, corrected), accounting for 28.7% of variance in the CPT-II HRTSE score. Conclusions : Our study indicated that increased right hemispheric resting-state EEG functional connectivity at high frequencies was correlated with poorer focused attention in schizophrenia patients. If replicated, novel approaches to modulate these networks may yield selective, potent interventions for improving attention deficits in schizophrenia.
