Title: Lessons Learned and Future Perspectives for Rotavirus Vaccines Switch in the World Health Organization, Regional Office for Africa
Authors: Inacio Mandomando, Augusto Messa, Joseph Nsiari-Muzeyi Biey, Gilson Paluku, Mutale Mumba, Jason M. Mwenda
Year: 2023
Venue: Vaccines
DOI: 10.3390/vaccines11040788
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140870

Abstract:
Background: Following the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendation, 38/47 countries have introduced rotavirus vaccines into the program of immunization in the WHO Regional Office for Africa (WHO/AFRO). Initially, two vaccines (Rotarix and Rotateq) were recommended and recently two additional vaccines (Rotavac and Rotasiil) have become available. However, the global supply challenges have increasingly forced some countries in Africa to switch vaccine products. Therefore, the recent WHO pre-qualified vaccines (Rotavac, Rotasiil) manufactured in India, offer alternatives and reduce global supply challenges related to rotavirus vaccines; Methods: Using a questionnaire, we administered to the Program Managers, Expanded Program for Immunization, we collected data on vaccine introduction and vaccine switch and the key drivers of the decisions for switching vaccines products, in the WHO/AFRO. Data was also collected fromliterature review and the global new vaccine introduction status data base maintained by WHO and other agencies. Results: Of the 38 countries that introduced the vaccine, 35 (92%) initially adopted Rotateq or Rotarix; and 23% (8/35) switched between products after rotavirus vaccine introduction to either Rotavac (n = 3), Rotasiil (n = 2) or Rotarix (n = 3). Three countries (Benin, Democratic Republic of Congo and Nigeria) introduced the rotavirus vaccines manufactured in India. The decision to either introduce or switch to the Indian vaccines was predominately driven by global supply challenges or supply shortage. The withdrawal of Rotateq from the African market, or cost-saving for countries that graduated or in transition from Gavi support was another reason to switch the vaccine; Conclusions: The recently WHO pre-qualified vaccines have offered the countries, opportunities to adopt these cost-effective products, particularly for countries that have graduated or transitioning from full Gavi support, to sustain the demand of vaccines products.
