Title: A Glutamate Scavenging Protocol Combined with Deanna Protocol in SOD1-G93A Mouse Model of ALS
Authors: Christopher Q. Rogers, Melissa Ramirez, Carol S. Landon, Janine M. DeBlasi, Andrew P. Koutnik, Csilla Ari, Dominic P. D’Agostino
Year: 2023
Venue: Nutrients
DOI: 10.3390/nu15081821
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141074

Abstract:
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive disease of neuronal degeneration in the motor cortex, brainstem, and spinal cord, resulting in impaired motor function and premature demise as a result of insufficient respiratory drive. ALS is associated with dysfunctions in neurons, neuroglia, muscle cells, energy metabolism, and glutamate balance. Currently, there is not a widely accepted, effective treatment for this condition. Prior work from our lab has demonstrated the efficacy of supplemental nutrition with the Deanna Protocol (DP). In the present study, we tested the effects of three different treatments in a mouse model of ALS. These treatments were the DP alone, a glutamate scavenging protocol (GSP) alone, and a combination of the two treatments. Outcome measures included body weight, food intake, behavioral assessments, neurological score, and lifespan. Compared to the control group, DP had a significantly slower decline in neurological score, strength, endurance, and coordination, with a trend toward increased lifespan despite a greater loss of weight. GSP had a significantly slower decline in neurological score, strength, endurance, and coordination, with a trend toward increased lifespan. DP+GSP had a significantly slower decline in neurological score with a trend toward increased lifespan, despite a greater loss of weight. While each of the treatment groups fared better than the control group, the combination of the DP+GSP was not better than either of the individual treatments. We conclude that the beneficial effects of the DP and the GSP in this ALS mouse model are distinct, and appear to offer no additional benefit when combined.
