Title: Efficient analyses of triazole fungicides in water, honey and soy milk samples by popping candy-generated CO 2 and sugaring-out-assisted supramolecular solvent-based microextraction prior to HPLC determinations
Authors: Jedsada Jaroensan, Wannipha Khiaophong, Rawikan Kachangoon, Jitlada Vichapong
Year: 2023
Venue: RSC Advances
DOI: 10.1039/d2ra06560f
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890668

Abstract:
An enrichment method, namely popping candy-generated CO 2 and sugaring-out-assisted supramolecular solvent-based microextraction (PGS-SUPRA), was investigated for the determination of triazole fungicide residues in water, honey and soy milk samples. The extraction process was carried out by adding popping candies into a centrifuge tube. Consequently, rapid dispersion and mass transfer of extractants can be achieved without using dispersants and auxiliary devices, and therefore, the extraction efficiency increased. The extraction parameters affecting the efficiency of the developed method were investigated. The presented method was then analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Under the selected condition, the wide linearity of triazole fungicides after preconcentration by the proposed microextraction method ranged from 30 to 1000 μg L −1 for triadimefon and from 90 to 1000 μg L −1 for myclobutanil, tebuconazole and hexaconazole, with a coefficient for determination ( R 2 ) greater than 0.992. The limits of detection (LODs) and limits of quantitation (LOQs) were in the range of 10–30 μg L −1 and 30–90 μg L −1 , respectively. The precisions were assessed from the relative standard deviations (RSDs) of the retention time and peak area obtained from intra- ( n = 3) and inter-day ( n = 3 × 5) experiments, and were greater than 1.66% and 13.52%, respectively. Moreover, the proposed method provided high enhancement factors (EnFs) ranging from 14 to 51 folds. This technique has been prosperously applied for the extraction of fungicide residues in water, honey and soy milk samples with a recovery within the range of 60–114%. Overall, the developed method was found to be advantageous as compared with other sample preparation methods. Schematic diagram of the popping candy-generated CO 2 and sugaring-out-assisted supramolecular solvent-based microextraction (PGS-SUPRA) method prior to HPLC analysis.
