Title: Unmet healthcare needs and health inequalities in people with spinal cord injury: a direct regression inequality decomposition
Authors: Ana Oña, Kyriakides Athanasios, Piotr Tederko, Reuben Escorpizo, Mohit Arora, Christian Sturm, Shujuan Yang, Diana Pacheco Barzallo
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal for Equity in Health
DOI: 10.1186/s12939-023-01848-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10060928

Abstract:
Background Inequality in health is a prevalent and growing concern among countries where people with disabilities are disproportionately affected. Unmet healthcare needs explain a large part of the observed inequalities between and within countries; however, there are other causes, many non-modifiable, that also play a role. Aim This article explores the difference in health across income levels in populations with spinal cord injury (SCI). SCI is of special interest in the study of health systems, as it is an irreversible, long-term health condition that combines a high level of impairment with subsequent comorbidities. Methods We estimated the importance of modifiable and non-modifiable factors that explain health inequalities through a direct regression approach. We used two health outcomes: years living with the injury and a comorbidity index. Data come from the International Spinal Cord Injury Survey (InSCI), which has individual data on people with SCI in 22 countries around the world. Due to the heterogeneity of the data, the results were estimated country by country. Results On average, the results exhibit a prevalence of pro-rich inequalities, i.e., better health outcomes are more likely observed among high-income groups. For the years living with the injury, the inequality is mostly explained by non-modifiable factors, like the age at the time of the injury. In contrast, for the comorbidity index, inequality is mostly explained by unmet healthcare needs and the cause of the injury, which are modifiable factors. Conclusions A significant portion of health inequalities is explained by modifiable factors like unmet healthcare needs or the type of accident. This result is prevalent in low, middle, and high-income countries, with pervasive effects for vulnerable populations like people with SCI, who, at the same time are highly dependent on the health system. To reduce inequity, it is important not only to address problems from public health but from inequalities of opportunities, risks, and income in the population. Highlights • Better health status is evident among high-income groups, which is reflected in pro-rich inequalities. • Age at the time of the injury is the most important factor to explain inequalities in years living with the injury. • Unmet health care needs are the most important factor to explain inequalities in comorbidities. • The inequality in health varies by country dependent upon socioeconomic factors. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12939-023-01848-z.
