Title: High conductivity Sepia melanin ink films for environmentally benign printed electronics
Authors: Anthony Camus, Manuel Reali, Michael Rozel, Mariia Zhuldybina, Francesca Soavi, Clara Santato
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2200058119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371694

Abstract:
Significance Exclusive electronic transport over micrometric distances is uncommon in bio-sourced materials, usually featuring protonic or proton-assisted electronic transport. We found that films of Sepia melanin (the natural black–brown bio-pigment extracted from cuttlefish), flexographically printed from ink formulations including a binder, feature electronic conductivity as high as 10 −3 S cm −1 , an outstanding value for natural materials. Sepia melanin features a hierarchical structure, including granules as one of the sub-unit levels. We hypothesize that the binder confines Sepia melanin granules, leading to the formation of continuous inter-granular paths for efficient charge carrier percolation. Implicitly, our results reveal the high intra-granular conductivity of Sepia melanin. By shedding light on the transport physics of natural materials, we pave the way toward sustainable organic electronic technologies. Melanins (from the Greek μέλας, mélas, black) are bio-pigments ubiquitous in flora and fauna. Eumelanin is an insoluble brown–black type of melanin, found in vertebrates and invertebrates alike, among which Sepia (cuttlefish) is noteworthy. Sepia melanin is a type of bio-sourced eumelanin that can readily be extracted from the ink sac of cuttlefish. Eumelanin features broadband optical absorption, metal-binding affinity and antioxidative and radical-scavenging properties. It is a prototype of benign material for sustainable organic electronics technologies. Here, we report on an electronic conductivity as high as 10 −3 S cm −1 in flexographically printed Sepia melanin films; such values for the conductivity are typical for well-established high-performance organic electronic polymers but quite uncommon for bio-sourced organic materials. Our studies show the potential of bio-sourced materials for emerging electronic technologies with low human- and eco-toxicity.
