Title: Controlled growth of a high selectivity interface for seawater electrolysis
Authors: Yang Gao, Yurui Xue, Feng He, Yuliang Li
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206946119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457402

Abstract:
Significance We report a concept catalyst of graphdiyne/rhodium/graphdiyne (GDY/RhO x /GDY) with bi-layer hetero-interface. The high activity and selectivity of the microstructure formed on the interface results from uncomplete charge transfer between electron donor and acceptor in the system. The high activity and selectivity of catalytic systems due to incomplete charge transfer at the interface is a new concept in the field of catalysis. The catalytic system achieves high-performance overall seawater electrolysis at room temperature and ambient pressure with high current densities of 10 and 500 mA cm −2 at 1.42 and 1.52 V, respectively. In the next 5–10 years, such a catalytic system may lead to a big development in the field of catalysis, especially in the direction of electrocatalysis. Overall seawater electrolysis is an important direction for the development of hydrogen energy conversion. The key issues include how to achieve high selectivity, activity, and stability in seawater electrolysis reactions. In this report, the heterostructures of graphdiyne-RhO x -graphdiyne (GDY/RhO x /GDY) were constructed by in situ-controlled growth of GDY on RhO x nanocrystals. A double layer interface of sp -hybridized carbon-oxide-Rhodium ( sp -C∼O-Rh) was formed in this system. The microstructures at the interface are composed of active sites of sp -C∼O-Rh. The obvious electron-withdrawing surface enhances the catalytic activity with orders of magnitude, while the GDY outer of the metal oxides guarantees the stability. The electron-donating and withdrawing sp -C∼O-Rh structures enhance the catalytic activity, achieving high-performance overall seawater electrolysis with very small cell voltages of 1.42 and 1.52 V at large current densities of 10 and 500 mA cm −2 at room temperatures and ambient pressures, respectively. The compositional and structural superiority of the GDY-derived sp -C-metal-oxide active center offers great opportunities to engineer tunable redox properties and catalytic performance for seawater electrolysis and beyond. This is a typical successful example of the rational design of catalytic systems.
