Title: Suitability of memory aids and strategies for people with posterior cortical atrophy: protocol for a scoping review
Authors: A. Burbaite, S. Leeworthy, L. Hirst, E. Mioshi, L. Clare, S. Ahmed
Year: 2023
Venue: Systematic Reviews
DOI: 10.1186/s13643-023-02187-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061751

Abstract:
Background Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is a neurodegenerative syndrome characterised by progressive visuospatial and visuoperceptual impairment. Recent research shows that memory impairment can also occur as an early symptom of the condition and that the impairment can be ameliorated by providing support in the memory recall phase, for example, by presenting a related cue. In Alzheimer’s disease (AD), which is defined by an amnestic syndrome, memory aids and strategies have been used to help support everyday memory, which in turn can have a positive impact on patient and carer outcomes. Similar support for PCA could be achieved by using memory aids and strategies which help to encode and/or retrieve information, yet there are currently no guidelines for memory strategies that may be suitable in PCA. Due to the central visual disorder that defines PCA, careful consideration is needed when making recommendations. Methods A scoping review will be conducted of published studies that have assessed memory aids and strategies in people with AD and related dementias where memory is considered a core or supplementary feature, with the aim of distinguishing those that may be suitable or adaptable for PCA. The systematic search will include the electronic databases MEDLINE, PsycINFO and CINAHL, using search terms for dementia and memory aids and strategies identified in pilot searches. Findings will be mapped and described based on methods used, population, clinical data and memory aids and strategies identified. Discussion The scoping review will give an overview of the memory aids and strategies used in people with AD and related dementias and identify characteristics, modality and pragmatics to evaluate their suitability and adaptability for a PCA population. Tailored memory support strategies for people living with PCA could improve memory performance, with knock-on positive effects on patient and carer outcomes. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13643-023-02187-4.
