Title: Prospective and retrospective values integrated in frontal cortex drive predictive choice
Authors: Kosuke Hamaguchi, Hiromi Takahashi-Aoki, Dai Watanabe
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206067119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889848

Abstract:
Significance Animals must flexibly estimate the value of their actions (action-value) to successfully adapt to a changing environment. The brain is thought to estimate action-values from two different sources, namely the action-outcome history (retrospective value) and the knowledge of the environment (prospective value), but how different estimates of action-values are reconciled to make a choice is not well understood. Here we found that as mice learn the state-transition structure of a decision-making task, retrospective and prospective values become jointly encoded in the preparatory activity of neurons in ALM. Suppressing this preparatory activity in expert mice returned their behavior to a naïve state. These results reveal the neural circuit that injects structural knowledge into action selection to promote predictive decision-making. To make a deliberate action in a volatile environment, the brain must frequently reassess the value of each action (action-value). Choice can be initially made from the experience of trial-and-errors, but once the dynamics of the environment is learned, the choice can be made from the knowledge of the environment. The action-values constructed from the experience (retrospective value) and the ones from the knowledge (prospective value) were identified in various regions of the brain. However, how and which neural circuit integrates these values and executes the chosen action remains unknown. Combining reinforcement learning and two-photon calcium imaging, we found that the preparatory activity of neurons in a part of the frontal cortex, the anterior-lateral motor (ALM) area, initially encodes retrospective value, but after extensive training, they jointly encode the retrospective and prospective value. Optogenetic inhibition of ALM preparatory activity specifically abolished the expert mice’s predictive choice behavior and returned them to the novice-like state. Thus, the integrated action-value encoded in the preparatory activity of ALM plays an important role to bias the action toward the knowledge-dependent, predictive choice behavior.
