Title: The RecA-directed recombination pathway of natural transformation initiates at chromosomal replication forks in the pneumococcus
Authors: Calum H. G. Johnston, Rachel Hope, Anne-Lise Soulet, Marie Dewailly, David De Lemos, Patrice Polard
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2213867120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974461

Abstract:
Significance Natural transformation is a central horizontal gene transfer (HGT) mechanism of genome plasticity in bacteria. It relies on the capture and transport of exogenous DNA across the cell envelope, followed by its recombination at homologous chromosomal DNA sites. We investigated in Streptococcus pneumoniae the spatiotemporal choreography of the early recombination steps of transformation, coordinated by the conserved DprA protein and the general RecA recombinase on transforming DNA (tDNA). DprA and RecA accumulate in a tDNA-dependent manner at chromosomal replication forks, in a minute timescale. RecA assembles dynamic filaments at those sites, as at DNA-damaged sites during their recombinational repair. Thus, RecA-directed tDNA homology search on the chromosome appears to initiate and proceed from the replication forks in S. pneumoniae. Homologous recombination (HR) is a crucial mechanism of DNA strand exchange that promotes genetic repair and diversity in all kingdoms of life. Bacterial HR is driven by the universal recombinase RecA, assisted in the early steps by dedicated mediators that promote its polymerization on single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). In bacteria, natural transformation is a prominent HR-driven mechanism of horizontal gene transfer specifically dependent on the conserved DprA recombination mediator. Transformation involves internalization of exogenous DNA as ssDNA, followed by its integration into the chromosome by RecA-directed HR. How DprA-mediated RecA filamentation on transforming ssDNA is spatiotemporally coordinated with other cellular processes remains unknown. Here, we tracked the localization of fluorescent fusions to DprA and RecA in Streptococcus pneumoniae and revealed that both accumulate in an interdependent manner with internalized ssDNA at replication forks. In addition, dynamic RecA filaments were observed emanating from replication forks, even with heterologous transforming DNA, which probably represent chromosomal homology search. In conclusion, this unveiled interaction between HR transformation and replication machineries highlights an unprecedented role for replisomes as landing pads for chromosomal access of tDNA, which would define a pivotal early HR step for its chromosomal integration.
