Title: Estimation of Pediatric Dosage of Antimalarial Drugs, Using Pharmacokinetic and Physiological Approach
Authors: Ellen K. G. Mhango, Bergthora S. Snorradottir, Baxter H. K. Kachingwe, Kondwani G. H. Katundu, Sveinbjorn Gizurarson
Year: 2023
Venue: Pharmaceutics
DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15041076
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140824

Abstract:
Most of the individuals who die of malaria in sub–Saharan Africa are children. It is, therefore, important for this age group to have access to the right treatment and correct dose. Artemether—lumefantrine is one of the fixed dose combination therapies that was approved by the World Health Organization to treat malaria. However, the current recommended dose has been reported to cause underexposure or overexposure in some children. The aim of this article was, therefore, to estimate the doses that can mimic adult exposure. The availability of more and reliable pharmacokinetic data is essential to accurately estimate appropriate dosage regimens. The doses in this study were estimated using the physiological information from children and some pharmacokinetic data from adults due to the lack of pediatric pharmacokinetic data in the literature. Depending on the approach that was used to calculate the dose, the results showed that some children were underexposed, and others were overexposed. This can lead to treatment failure, toxicity, and even death. Therefore, when designing a dosage regimen, it is important to know and include the distinctions in physiology at various phases of development that influence the pharmacokinetics of various drugs in order to estimate the dose in young children. The physiology at each time point during the growth of a child may influence how the drug is absorbed, gets distributed, metabolized, and eliminated. From the results, there is a very clear need to conduct a clinical study to further verify if the suggested (i.e., 0.34 mg/kg for artemether and 6 mg/kg for lumefantrine) doses could be clinically efficacious.
