Title: Deep Learning Models for Cystoscopic Recognition of Hunner Lesion in Interstitial Cystitis
Authors: Takuya Iwaki, Yoshiyuki Akiyama, Hirokazu Nosato, Manami Kinjo, Aya Niimi, Satoru Taguchi, Yuta Yamada, Yusuke Sato, Taketo Kawai, Daisuke Yamada, Hidenori Sakanashi, Haruki Kume, Yukio Homma, Hiroshi Fukuhara
Year: 2023
Venue: European Urology Open Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.euros.2022.12.012
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975003

Abstract:
Take Home Message In this diagnostic study, we developed the first deep learning system for cystoscopic recognition of a Hunner lesion in patients with interstitial cystitis, which demonstrates diagnostic accuracy exceeding that of human experts, assisting physicians with proper diagnosis of a Hunner lesion. Background Accurate cystoscopic recognition of Hunner lesions (HLs) is indispensable for better treatment prognosis in managing patients with Hunner-type interstitial cystitis (HIC), but frequently challenging due to its varying appearance. Objective To develop a deep learning (DL) system for cystoscopic recognition of a HL using artificial intelligence (AI). Design, setting, and participants A total of 626 cystoscopic images collected from January 8, 2019 to December 24, 2020, consisting of 360 images of HLs from 41 patients with HIC and 266 images of flat reddish mucosal lesions resembling HLs from 41 control patients including those with bladder cancer and other chronic cystitis, were used to create a dataset with an 8:2 ratio of training images and test images for transfer learning and external validation, respectively. AI-based five DL models were constructed, using a pretrained convolutional neural network model that was retrained to output 1 for a HL and 0 for control. A five-fold cross-validation method was applied for internal validation. Outcome measurements and statistical analysis True- and false-positive rates were plotted as a receiver operating curve when the threshold changed from 0 to 1. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were evaluated at a threshold of 0.5. Diagnostic performance of the models was compared with that of urologists as a reader study. Results and limitations The mean area under the curve of the models reached 0.919, with mean sensitivity of 81.9% and specificity of 85.2% in the test dataset. In the reader study, the mean accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were, respectively, 83.0%, 80.4%, and 85.6% for the models, and 62.4%, 79.6%, and 45.2% for expert urologists. Limitations include the diagnostic nature of a HL as warranted assertibility. Conclusions We constructed the first DL system that recognizes HLs with accuracy exceeding that of humans. This AI-driven system assists physicians with proper cystoscopic recognition of a HL. Patient summary In this diagnostic study, we developed a deep learning system for cystoscopic recognition of Hunner lesions in patients with interstitial cystitis. The mean area under the curve of the constructed system reached 0.919 with mean sensitivity of 81.9% and specificity of 85.2%, demonstrating diagnostic accuracy exceeding that of human expert urologists in detecting Hunner lesions. This deep learning system assists physicians with proper diagnosis of a Hunner lesion.
