Title: Quercetin-Induced Enhancement of Nasal Epithelial Cells’ Ability to Produce Clara Cell 10-kD Protein In Vitro and In Vivo
Authors: Amane Otaki, Atsuko Furuta, Kazuhito Asano
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicines
DOI: 10.3390/medicines10040028
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10143719

Abstract:
Abstract Background: Quercetin, a polyphenolic flavonoid found in various plants and foods, is known to have antioxidant, antiviral and anticancer effects. Although quercetin is well known to exert anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic effects, the precise mechanisms by which quercetin favorably modifies the clinical status of allergic diseases, such as allergic rhinitis (AR), remain unclear. The present study examined whether quercetin could modulate the production of the endogenous anti-inflammatory molecule, Clara cell 10-kD protein (CC10), in vitro and in vivo. Methods: Human nasal epithelial cells (1 × 10 5 cells/mL) were stimulated with 20 ng/mL of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) in the presence of quercetin for 24 h. CC10 levels in culture supernatants were examined by ELISA. Sprague Dawley rats were sensitised with toluene 2,4-diisocyanate (TDI) by intranasal instillation of 10% TDI in ethyl acetate at a volume of 5.0 μL once daily for five days. This sensitisation procedure was repeated after an interval of two days. The rats were treated with different dosages of quercetin once daily for five days starting on the 5th day following the second sensitization. Nasal allergy-like symptoms induced by the bilateral application of 5.0 μL of 10% TDI were assessed by counting sneezing and nasal-rubbing behaviours for 10 min immediately after the TDI nasal challenge. The levels of CC10 in nasal lavage fluids obtained 6 h after TDI nasal challenge were examined using ELISA. Results: The treatment of cells with low doses of quercetin (<2.5 μM) scarcely affected TNF-induced CC10 production from nasal epithelial cells. However, the ability of nasal epithelial cells to produce CC10 after TNF stimulation significantly increased on treatment with quercetin doses (>5.0 μM). The oral administration of quercetin (>25 mg/kg) for five days significantly increased the CC10 content in nasal lavage fluids and attenuated the nasal symptoms induced by the TDI nasal challenge. Conclusions: Quercetin inhibits AR development by increasing the ability of nasal epithelial cells to produce CC10.
