Title: Rabdosia serra alleviates dextran sulfate sodium salt-induced colitis in mice through anti-inflammation, regulating Th17/Treg balance, maintaining intestinal barrier integrity, and modulating gut microbiota
Authors: Hongyi Li, Yi Wang, Shumin Shao, Hui Yu, Deqin Wang, Chuyuan Li, Qin Yuan, Wen Liu, Jiliang Cao, Xiaojuan Wang, Haibiao Guo, Xu Wu, Shengpeng Wang
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Pharmaceutical Analysis
DOI: 10.1016/j.jpha.2022.08.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805946

Abstract:
Rabdosia serra ( R. serra ), an important component of Chinese herbal tea, has traditionally been used to treat hepatitis, jaundice, cholecystitis, and colitis. However, the chemical composition of R. serra and its effect against colitis remain unclear. In this study, the chemical composition of the water extract of R . serra was analyzed using ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled with a hybrid linear ion trap quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer (UPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap-MS). A total of 46 compounds, comprising ent -kaurane diterpenoids, flavonoids, phenolic acids, and steroids, were identified in the water extract of R . serra , and the extract could significantly alleviate dextran sulfate sodium salt-induced colitis by improving colon length, upregulating anti-inflammatory factors, downregulating proinflammatory factors, and restoring the balance of T helper 17/T regulatory cells. R. serra also preserved intestinal barrier function by increasing the level of tight junction proteins (zonula occludens 1 and occludin) in mouse colonic tissue. In addition, R . serra modulated the gut microbiota composition by increasing bacterial richness and diversity, increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria ( Muribaculaceae , Bacteroides , Lactobacillus , and Prevotellaceae_UCG-001 ), and decreasing the abundance of pathogenic bacteria ( Turicibacter , Eubacterium_fissicatena_group , and Eubacterium_xylanophilum_group ). Gut microbiota depletion by antibiotics further confirmed that R . serra alleviated colitis in a microbiota-dependent manner. Overall, our findings provide chemical and biological evidence for the potential application of R . serra in the management of colitis. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • R. serra significantly alleviated DSS-induced murine colitis. • R. serra exerted antiinflammatory effect and restored the balance of Th17/Treg cells. • R. serra maintained intestinal barrier function and alleviated DSS-induced dysbiosis. • The colitis protection effect of R. serra was gut microbiota dependent. • The chemical composition of R. serra water extract was analyzed by UPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap-MS.
