Title: Lenvatinib Induces Immunogenic Cell Death and Triggers Toll-Like Receptor-3/4 Ligands in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Authors: Cheng Zhou, Zhang-Fu Yang, Bao-Ye Sun, Yong Yi, Zheng Wang, Jian Zhou, Jia Fan, Wei Gan, Ning Ren, Shuang-Jian Qiu
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DOI: 10.2147/JHC.S401639
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149778

Abstract:
Purpose Immunogenic cell death (ICD) is a cell death modality that plays a vital role in anticancer therapy. In this study, we investigated whether lenvatinib induces ICD in hepatocellular carcinoma and how it affects cancer cell behavior. Patients and Methods Hepatoma cells were treated with 0.5 μM lenvatinib for two weeks, and damage-associated molecular patterns were assessed using the expression of calreticulin, high mobility group box 1, and ATP secretion. Transcriptome sequencing was performed to investigate the effects of lenvatinib on hepatocellular carcinoma. Additionally, CU CPT 4A and TAK-242 were used to inhibit TLR3 and TLR4 expressions, respectively. Flow cytometry was used to assess PD-L1 expression. Kaplan–Meier and Cox regression models were applied for prognosis assessment. Results After treatment with lenvatinib, there was a significant increase in ICD-associated damage-associated molecular patterns, such as calreticulin on the cell membrane, extracellular ATP, and high mobility group box 1, in hepatoma cells. Following treatment with lenvatinib, there was a significant increase in the downstream immunogenic cell death receptors, including TLR3 and TLR4. Furthermore, lenvatinib increased the expression of PD-L1, which was later inhibited by TLR4. Interestingly, inhibiting TLR3 in MHCC-97H and Huh7 cells strengthened their proliferative capacity. Moreover, TLR3 inhibition was identified as an independent risk factor for overall survival and recurrence-free survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Conclusion Our study revealed that lenvatinib induced ICD in hepatocellular carcinoma and upregulated PD-L1 expression through TLR4 while promoting cell apoptosis through TLR3 . Antibodies against PD-1/PD-L1 can enhance the efficacy of lenvatinib in the management of hepatocellular carcinoma. Graphical Abstract
