Title: The Usefulness of a Simplified Navigation-Based Instrumentation for a Novice Surgeon in Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Retrospective Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial
Authors: Oog-Jin Shon, Gi Beom Kim, Ho Gyu Lee
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22289
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232320

Abstract:
Background A novel simplified navigation-based instrumentation system has been developed. It simplifies the existing navigation system and facilitates convenient bone cutting by positioning the tracker on an existing cutting block without additional pin fixation. This study aimed to compare the outcomes of this newly developed simplified navigation-based instrumentation system in primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA) performed by a novice surgeon with those of conventional surgical techniques. Methods From January 2020 to July 2020, 67 knees that underwent primary TKA using the ExactechGPS TKA Plus (group A) were compared to 68 knees that underwent primary TKA using a conventional technique (group B). All patients had a minimum follow-up of 24 months. The operative details such as tourniquet time were investigated. Postoperative hip-knee-ankle (HKA) angle and component position angles in the coronal and sagittal planes (α, β, γ, and δ angles) were evaluated. The outlier rates were compared between the groups as those lying outside ± 3°. Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Joint Replacement, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index for pain and function, and range of motion were compared. Results There was no statistically significant difference in average tourniquet time between the groups (74.3 vs. 70.3 minutes, p = 0.061). Outlier rates for HKA angle (7.5% vs. 23.5%, p = 0.010) and β angle (1.5% vs. 22.1%, p < 0.001) in group A were significantly lower than those in group B. There were no significant differences in clinical outcomes between the groups. Conclusions Primary TKA performed by a novice surgeon using a simplified navigation-based instrumentation system did not significantly increase the operation time, and more accurate lower extremity mechanical alignment and tibial component alignment in the coronal plane could be obtained.
