Title: In vivo serotonin 1A receptor hippocampal binding potential in depression and reported childhood adversity
Authors: Elizabeth A. Bartlett, Ashley A. Yttredahl, Maura Boldrini, Andrea E. Tyrer, Kathryn R. Hill, Mala R. Ananth, Matthew S. Milak, Maria A. Oquendo, J. John Mann, Christine DeLorenzo, Ramin V. Parsey
Year: 2023
Venue: European Psychiatry
DOI: 10.1192/j.eurpsy.2023.4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9970152

Abstract:
Background Reported childhood adversity (CA) is associated with development of depression in adulthood and predicts a more severe course of illness. Although elevated serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT 1A R) binding potential, especially in the raphe nuclei, has been shown to be a trait associated with major depression, we did not replicate this finding in an independent sample using the partial agonist positron emission tomography tracer [ 11 C]CUMI-101. Evidence suggests that CA can induce long-lasting changes in expression of 5-HT 1A R, and thus, a history of CA may explain the disparate findings. Methods Following up on our initial report, 28 unmedicated participants in a current depressive episode (bipolar n = 16, unipolar n = 12) and 19 non-depressed healthy volunteers (HVs) underwent [ 11 C]CUMI-101 imaging to quantify 5-HT 1A R binding potential. Participants in a depressive episode were stratified into mild/moderate and severe CA groups via the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. We hypothesized higher hippocampal and raphe nuclei 5-HT 1A R with severe CA compared with mild/moderate CA and HVs. Results There was a group-by-region effect ( p = 0.011) when considering HV, depressive episode mild/moderate CA, and depressive episode severe CA groups, driven by significantly higher hippocampal 5-HT 1A R binding potential in participants in a depressive episode with severe CA relative to HVs ( p = 0.019). Contrary to our hypothesis, no significant binding potential differences were detected in the raphe nuclei ( p -value s > 0.05). Conclusions With replication in larger samples, elevated hippocampal 5-HT 1A R binding potential may serve as a promising biomarker through which to investigate the neurobiological link between CA and depression.
