Title: Exploring the epidemiology of mcr genes, genetic context and plasmids in Enterobacteriaceae originating from pigs and humans on farms in Thailand
Authors: Thongpan Leangapichart, Milan S Stosic, Rachel A Hickman, Kamonwan Lunha, Jatesada Jiwakanon, Sunpetch Angkititrakul, Ulf Magnusson, Thomas P Van Boeckel, Josef D Järhult, Marianne Sunde
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy
DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkad097
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232291

Abstract:
Abstract Objectives In veterinary medicine, colistin has been widely used as therapeutic and prophylactic agent, and for growth promotion. However, colistin has been re-introduced into treatment of human MDR bacterial infections. We assessed the characteristics and spread of plasmid-borne colistin resistance among healthy pigs, workers with animal-contact and their household members in Thailand. Methods WGS and MIC data of 146 mcr -positive isolates from a cross-sectional One Health study were analysed. Long-read sequencing and conjugation were performed for selected isolates. Results mcr- carrying isolates were detected in 38% of pooled-pig samples and 16% of human faecal samples. Of 143 Escherichia coli and three Escherichia fergusonii , mcr-1 , mcr-3 , and mcr-9 variants were identified in 96 (65.8%), 61 (41.8%) and one (0.7%) isolate, respectively. Twelve E. coli co-harboured two mcr variants ( mcr-1 and mcr-3 ). Clonal transmission was detected in five out of 164 farms. mcr-1 was mostly harboured by epidemic IncX4 and IncHI1 plasmids (89.9%). Conversely, mcr-3 was harboured by a range of different plasmids. Comparative plasmid studies suggested IncP and IncFII plasmids as possible endemic mcr-3 plasmids in Asian countries. Moreover, mcr-3 was associated with different mobile genetic elements including Tn As2 , IS Kpn40 and IS 26/15DI . Detected genetic signatures (DRs) indicated recent mcr-3 transpositions, underlining the mobilizable nature of the mcr-3 cassette. Conclusions The epidemiology of mcr and the possible evolution of successful plasmids and transposition modules should be carefully monitored. Of special concern is the growing number of different horizontal gene transferring pathways encompassing various transposable modules the mcr genes can be shared between bacteria.
