Title: Fin ray branching is defined by TRAP + osteolytic tubules in zebrafish
Authors: João Cardeira-da-Silva, Anabela Bensimon-Brito, Marco Tarasco, Ana S. Brandão, Joana T. Rosa, Jorge Borbinha, Paulo J. Almeida, António Jacinto, M. Leonor Cancela, Paulo J. Gavaia, Didier Y. R. Stainier, Vincent Laizé
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2209231119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889879

Abstract:
Significance Skeletal function is inherently linked to the correct shaping of the bones. However, how different cells regulate bone shaping remains unclear. The zebrafish fins are particularly suitable to study bone shaping, as bone rays undergo a simple bifurcation process, easily tracked in vivo. Here, we show that the bifurcation of a bone element relies on stitching and antistitching events, rather than on the splitting of a single unit. This report describes tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive (TRAP + ) osteolytic tubules and their role in bone bifurcation. Our study provides valuable insights into how cells coordinate to shape bones, thereby contributing to our understanding of bone degenerative and dysmorphic diseases and the identification of new therapeutic strategies. The shaping of bone structures relies on various cell types and signaling pathways. Here, we use the zebrafish bifurcating fin rays during regeneration to investigate bone patterning. We found that the regenerating fin rays form via two mineralization fronts that undergo an osteoblast-dependent fusion/stitching until the branchpoint, and that bifurcation is not simply the splitting of one unit into two. We identified tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive osteolytic tubular structures at the branchpoints, hereafter named osteolytic tubules (OLTs). Chemical inhibition of their bone-resorbing activity strongly impairs ray bifurcation, indicating that OLTs counteract the stitching process. Furthermore, by testing different osteoactive compounds, we show that the position of the branchpoint depends on the balance between bone mineralization and resorption activities. Overall, these findings provide a unique perspective on fin ray formation and bifurcation, and reveal a key role for OLTs in defining the proximo-distal position of the branchpoint.
