Title: The intratumour microbiota and neutrophilic inflammation in squamous cell vulvar carcinoma microenvironment
Authors: Natalia Rustetska, Magdalena Szczepaniak, Krzysztof Goryca, Elwira Bakuła-Zalewska, Małgorzata Figat, Artur Kowalik, Stanisław Góźdź, Magdalena Kowalewska
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Translational Medicine
DOI: 10.1186/s12967-023-04113-7
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141905

Abstract:
Background A causal link between microbiota composition (dysbiosis) and oncogenesis has been demonstrated for several types of cancer. Neutrophils play a role in both immune protection against bacterial threats and carcinogenesis. This study aimed to characterise intratumoral bacteria in vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (VSCC) and their putative effect on neutrophil recruitment and cancer progression. Methods Clinical material was obtained from 89 patients with VSCC. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) of 16S rRNA and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were used to detect bacterial species in VSCC. To verify neutrophil activation, CD66b expression in tumour specimens was analysed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Subsequently, IHC was applied to detect the main neutrophil serine proteases (NSPs), cathepsin G (CTSG), neutrophil elastase (ELANE), and proteinase 3 (PRTN3) in VSCC. Results Fusobacterium nucleatum and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified as tumour-promoting bacteria, and their presence was found to be associated with a shorter time to progression in VSCC patients. Furthermore, high abundance of CD66b, the neutrophil activation marker, in VSCC samples, was found to relate to poor survival of patients with VSCC. The selected NSPs were shown to be expressed in vulvar tumours, also within microabscess. The increased numbers of microabscesess were correlated with poor survival in VSCC patients. Conclusions Our results show that neutrophilic inflammation seem to be permissive for tumour-promoting bacteria growth in VSCC. The findings provide new therapeutic opportunities, such as based on shifting the balance of neutrophil populations to those with antitumorigenic activity and on targeting NSPs produced by activated neutrophils at the inflammation sites. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12967-023-04113-7.
