Title: Evaluation of sHLA-G levels in serum of patients with prostate cancer identify as a potential of tumor marker
Authors: Mohammad Hassan Heidari, Abolfazl Movafagh, Mohammad-Amin Abdollahifar, Shabnam Abdi, Mohamadreza Mashhoudi Barez, Hadi Azimi, Afshin Moradi, Amin Bagheri, Matineh Heidari, Jafar Hessam Mohseni, Maryam Tadayon, Hoda Mirsafian, Mahdi Ghatrehsamani
Year: 2017
Venue: Anatomy & Cell Biology
DOI: 10.5115/acb.2017.50.1.69
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386928

Abstract:
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer type in men and is the second cause of death, due to cancer, in patients over 50, after lung cancer. Prostate specific antigen (PSA) is a widely used tumor marker for prostate cancer. Recently, PSA is discovered in non-prostatic cancer tissues in men and women raising doubts about its specificity for prostatic tissues. PSA exists in low serum level in healthy men and in higher levels in many prostate disorders, including prostatitis and prostate cancer. Thus, a supplementary tumor marker is needed to accurately diagnose the cancer and to observe the patient after treatment. Recently, soluble human leukocyte antigen-G (sHLA-G) has been introduced as a new tumor marker for different cancer types, including colorectal, breast, lung, and ovary. The present descriptive-experimental study was carried out including patients with malignant prostate tumor, patients with benign prostate tumor, and a group of health men as the control group, as judged by an oncologist as well as a pathologist. After sterile blood sampling, sHLA-G was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in each group. The data was then analyzed using one-way ANOVA. P ≤0.05 was considered as statistically significant. The results showed that the mean of sHLA-G level was high in patients. Also, it was found that there was a significant difference in sHLA serum level between the three groups. The data revealed that sHLA-G can be a novel supplementary tumor marker in addition to PSA to diagnose prostate cancer.
