Title: A parathyroid hormone/salt-inducible kinase signaling axis controls renal vitamin D activation and organismal calcium homeostasis
Authors: Sung-Hee Yoon, Mark B. Meyer, Carlos Arevalo, Murat Tekguc, Chengcheng Zhang, Jialiang S. Wang, Christian D. Castro Andrade, Katelyn Strauss, Tadatoshi Sato, Nancy A. Benkusky, Seong Min Lee, Rebecca Berdeaux, Marc Foretz, Thomas B. Sundberg, Ramnik J. Xavier, Charles H. Adelmann, Daniel J. Brooks, Anthony Anselmo, Ruslan I. Sadreyev, Ivy A. Rosales, David E. Fisher, Navin Gupta, Ryuji Morizane, Anna Greka, J. Wesley Pike, Michael Mannstadt, Marc N. Wein
Year: 2023
Venue: The Journal of Clinical Investigation
DOI: 10.1172/JCI163627
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10145948

Abstract:
The renal actions of parathyroid hormone (PTH) promote 1,25-vitamin D generation; however, the signaling mechanisms that control PTH-dependent vitamin D activation remain unknown. Here, we demonstrated that salt-inducible kinases (SIKs) orchestrated renal 1,25-vitamin D production downstream of PTH signaling. PTH inhibited SIK cellular activity by cAMP-dependent PKA phosphorylation. Whole-tissue and single-cell transcriptomics demonstrated that both PTH and pharmacologic SIK inhibitors regulated a vitamin D gene module in the proximal tubule. SIK inhibitors increased 1,25-vitamin D production and renal Cyp27b1 mRNA expression in mice and in human embryonic stem cell–derived kidney organoids. Global- and kidney-specific Sik2/Sik3 mutant mice showed Cyp27b1 upregulation, elevated serum 1,25-vitamin D, and PTH-independent hypercalcemia. The SIK substrate CRTC2 showed PTH and SIK inhibitor–inducible binding to key Cyp27b1 regulatory enhancers in the kidney, which were also required for SIK inhibitors to increase Cyp27b1 in vivo. Finally, in a podocyte injury model of chronic kidney disease–mineral bone disorder (CKD-MBD), SIK inhibitor treatment stimulated renal Cyp27b1 expression and 1,25-vitamin D production. Together, these results demonstrated a PTH/SIK/CRTC signaling axis in the kidney that controls Cyp27b1 expression and 1,25-vitamin D synthesis. These findings indicate that SIK inhibitors might be helpful for stimulation of 1,25-vitamin D production in CKD-MBD.
