Title: Tetramethylpyrazine Protects against Hydrogen Peroxide-Provoked Endothelial Dysfunction in Isolated Rat Aortic Rings: Implications for Antioxidant Therapy of Vascular Diseases
Authors: Xiaojia Ni, Siu Ling Wong, Chi Ming Wong, Chi Wai Lau, Xiaogeng Shi, Yefeng Cai, Yu Huang
Year: 2014
Venue: Evidence-based Complementary and Alternative Medicine : eCAM
DOI: 10.1155/2014/627181
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4166453

Abstract:
Background and Objectives . Oxidative stress can initiate endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis. This study evaluated whether tetramethylpyrazine (TMP), the predominant active ingredient in Rhizoma Ligustici Wallichii (chuanxiong), prevents endothelial dysfunction in a rat model of oxidative stress. Methods . Isolated rat aortic rings were pretreated with various drugs before the induction of endothelial dysfunction by hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ). Changes in isometric tension were then measured in acetylcholine- (ACh-) relaxed rings. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression was evaluated in the rings by Western blotting, and superoxide anion (O 2 ∙− ) content was assessed in primary rat aortic endothelial cells by dihydroethidium- (DHE-) mediated fluorescence microscopy. Results . ACh-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) was disrupted by H 2 O 2 in endothelium-intact aortic rings. H 2 O 2 -impaired relaxation was ameliorated by acute pretreatment with low concentrations of TMP, as well as by pretreatment with catalase and the NADPH oxidase inhibitors, apocynin and diphenyleneiodonium (DPI). TMP, apocynin, and DPI also reduced O 2 ∙− accumulation in endothelial cells,but TMP failed to alter eNOS expression in aortic rings incubated with H 2 O 2 . Conclusions . TMP safeguards against oxidative stress-induced endothelial dysfunction, suggesting that the agent might find therapeutic utility in the management of vascular diseases. However, TMP's role in inhibiting NADPH oxidase and its vascular-protective mechanism of action requires further investigation.
