Title: Age-related changes of the periocular morphology: a two- and three-dimensional anthropometry study in Caucasians
Authors: Jinhua Liu, Alexander C. Rokohl, Honglei Liu, Wanlin Fan, Senmao Li, Xiaoyi Hou, Sitong Ju, Yongwei Guo, Ludwig M. Heindl
Year: 2022
Venue: Graefe's Archive for Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology
DOI: 10.1007/s00417-022-05746-y
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803744

Abstract:
Purpose To determine age-and sex-related changes in periocular morphology in Caucasians using a standardized protocol. Methods Healthy Caucasian volunteers aged 18–35 and 60–90 years old were recruited from the Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital, Cologne, between October 2018 and May 2020. Volunteers with facial asymmetry, facial deformities, history of facial trauma, facial surgery, botox injection, eyelid ptosis, strabismus, or nystagmus, were excluded. Standardized three-dimensional facial photos of 68 young volunteers and 73 old volunteers were taken in this clinical practice. Position changes of endocanthion, pupil center, and exocanthion were analyzed in different age and gender groups, including palpebral fissure width (PFW): distance between endocanthions (En-En), pupil centers (Pu–Pu), exocanthions (Ex-Ex), endocanthion and nasion (En-Na), pupil center and nasion (Pu-Na), exocanthion and nasion (Ex-Na), endocanthion and pupil center (Pu-En), exocanthion and pupil center (Pu-Ex), and palpebral fissure inclination (PFI); angle of endocanthions to nasion (En-Na-En), pupils to nasion (Pu-Na-Pu), exocanthions to nasion (Ex-Na-Ex); endocanthion inclination (EnI), and exocanthion inclination (ExI). Results PFW, En-En, Ex-Na, Pu-Ex, PFI, ExI, and Ex-Na-Ex were significantly different between the young and old groups ( p ≤ 0.004). There were sex-related differences in PFW, Ex-Ex, En-Na, Pu-Na, Ex-Na, Pu-En, PFI, and EnI between both groups ( p ≤ 0.041). Conclusion The position change of the pupil is minimal relative to age; it is preferred to establish the reference plane to describe periocular changes. The endocanthion tends to move temporally and inferiorly, while the exocanthion tends to shift nasally and inferiorly with age.
