Title: Neuronal networks underlying ictal and subclinical discharges in childhood absence epilepsy
Authors: Ami Kumar, Ekaterina Lyzhko, Laith Hamid, Anand Srivastav, Ulrich Stephani, Natia Japaridze
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Neurology
DOI: 10.1007/s00415-022-11462-8
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971098

Abstract:
Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), involves 3 Hz generalized spikes and waves discharges (GSWDs) on the electroencephalogram (EEG), associated with ictal discharges (seizures) with clinical symptoms and impairment of consciousness and subclinical discharges without any objective clinical symptoms or impairment of consciousness. This study aims to comparatively characterize neuronal networks underlying absence seizures and subclinical discharges, using source localization and functional connectivity (FC), to better understand the pathophysiological mechanism of these discharges. Routine EEG data from 12 CAE patients, consisting of 45 ictal and 42 subclinical discharges were selected. Source localization was performed using the exact low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (eLORETA) algorithm, followed by FC based on the imaginary part of coherency. FC based on the thalamus as the seed of interest showed significant differences between ictal and subclinical GSWDs ( p < 0.05). For delta (1–3 Hz) and alpha bands (8–12 Hz), the thalamus displayed stronger connectivity towards other brain regions for ictal GSWDs as compared to subclinical GSWDs. For delta band, the thalamus was strongly connected to the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), precuneus, angular gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, parietal superior, and occipital mid-region for ictal GSWDs. The strong connections of the thalamus with other brain regions that are important for consciousness, and with components of the default mode network (DMN) suggest the severe impairment of consciousness in ictal GSWDs. However, for subclinical discharges, weaker connectivity between the thalamus and these brain regions may suggest the prevention of impairment of consciousness. This may benefit future therapeutic targets and improve the management of CAE patients. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00415-022-11462-8.
