Title: Dynamic activity in cis -regulatory elements of leukocytes identifies transcription factor activation and stratifies COVID-19 severity in ICU patients
Authors: Michael Tun Yin Lam, Sascha H. Duttke, Mazen F. Odish, Hiep D. Le, Emily A. Hansen, Celina T. Nguyen, Samantha Trescott, Roy Kim, Shaunak Deota, Max W. Chang, Arjun Patel, Mark Hepokoski, Mona Alotaibi, Mark Rolfsen, Katherine Perofsky, Anna S. Warden, Jennifer Foley, Sydney I. Ramirez, Jennifer M. Dan, Robert K. Abbott, Shane Crotty, Laura E. Crotty Alexander, Atul Malhotra, Satchidananda Panda, Christopher W. Benner, Nicole G. Coufal
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100935
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9874047

Abstract:
Summary Transcription factor programs mediating the immune response to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) are not fully understood. Capturing active transcription initiation from cis -regulatory elements such as enhancers and promoters by capped small RNA sequencing (csRNA-seq), in contrast to capturing steady-state transcripts by conventional RNA-seq, allows unbiased identification of the underlying transcription factor activity and regulatory pathways. Here, we profile transcription initiation in critically ill COVID-19 patients, identifying transcription factor motifs that correlate with clinical lung injury and disease severity. Unbiased clustering reveals distinct subsets of cis -regulatory elements that delineate the cell type, pathway-specific, and combinatorial transcription factor activity. We find evidence of critical roles of regulatory networks, showing that STAT/BCL6 and E2F/MYB regulatory programs from myeloid cell populations are activated in patients with poor disease outcomes and associated with COVID-19 susceptibility genetic variants. More broadly, we demonstrate how capturing acute, disease-mediated changes in transcription initiation can provide insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms and stratify patient disease severity. Graphical abstract Highlights • Immune cis -regulatory activities are dynamic in COVID-19 ICU patients’ courses • The activity of specific cis -regulatory clusters tracks clinical lung injury • Distinct transcription factor motifs are enriched in cis -regulatory clusters • STAT/BCL6, T1ISRE/STAT, and E2F/MYB activities are associated with poor outcomes Understanding how non-coding regulatory DNA functions in critical illnesses is understudied. Lam et al. integrate the dynamic activities of regulatory DNA with the clinical progression of COVID-19 ICU patients. Analysis of DNA binding sequences in these regulatory elements reveals the roles of transcription factor activities as indicators of disease severity.
