Title: Expert consensus on core topics of sustainable development online learning module for family physicians: a Delphi study
Authors: Krishna Suvarnabhumi, Sujitra Jorajit, Wan Dechpichai, Jarus Ativitthayaporn
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-061407
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806043

Abstract:
Objectives Medical institutions must provide learning experiences that enhance the knowledge and perspectives of sustainable development (SD) to prepare trainees of family medicine to become competent global citizens. The aim of this study was to develop an SD online learning module for trainees of family medicine. Design This mixed-methods study was conducted from January 2020 to May 2021, beginning with a literature review concerning Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Education for Sustainable Development in medicine. In-depth interviews were held to assess the relevant needs of family medicine training, followed by a two-round Delphi survey with experienced educators (N=21) in family medicine to refine and achieve consensus on the appropriate SDG topics for family physicians. Setting All residency training programmes in Thailand. Participants Members of the Residency Training Committee, Royal College of Family Physicians of Thailand. Results The literature review and in-depth interviews identified 12 topics of SD that were required for family physicians. The first round of the Delphi survey was concluded by identifying seven core topics with additional suggestions. In the second round, a consensus was obtained among the experienced educators regarding seven core topics as (1) a definition of SD, (2) principles of SD, (3) SDG, (4) a new concept of SD, (5) SD in the context of Thailand, (6) SD and principles of family medicine and (7) SD and family practice. These core topics were grouped within three main objectives and three submodules. Conclusions An online learning module of SD for family physicians was developed using modiﬁed Delphi method. This included three submodules as (1) concept and principles of SD, (2) SDG and (3) SD and its integration with family practice. This online learning module will provide additional resources for trainees of family medicine and Thai family physicians to expand their knowledge and perspectives of SD.
