Title: Evaluating requests for physician‐assisted suicide. A survey among German oncologists
Authors: Jan Schildmann, Marc Cinci, Leonie Kupsch, Michael Oldenburg, Bernhard Wörmann, Stephan Nadolny, Eva Winkler
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Medicine
DOI: 10.1002/cam4.4981
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9883542

Abstract:
Abstract Background Cancer patients form a notable proportion of requestors for physician‐assisted suicide (PAS). This manuscript provides data on German oncologists' views concerning due criteria for the assessment of requests for PAS and quality assurance. Methods The German Society of Haematology and Medical Oncology (DGHO) has conducted a survey among its members to elicit data about practices and views on regulating PAS in March 2021. Descriptive analysis and bivariate logistic regression of quantitative data on socio‐demographic and other determinants possibly associated with respondents' views on PAS as well as content analysis of qualitative data were performed. Results About 57.1% ( n = 425) of respondents ( n = 745) indicated that they had been asked for information about PAS by patients. Information about palliative (92.7%; n = 651) and psychological care options (85.6%; n = 598) was deemed most important in cases of requests for PAS. More than half of the respondents (57.6%; n = 429) were in favour of a formal expert assessment of decisional capacity and about 33.4% ( n = 249) favoured a time span of 14 days between the counselling and prescription of a lethal drug. There was no association between participants who received more requests and a preference for disclosing publicly their willingness to assist with suicide. A majority of respondents requested measures of quality assurance (71.3%; n = 531). Conclusion According to respondents' views, the regulation of PAS will require diligent procedures regarding the assessment of decisional capacity and counselling. The findings suggest that the development of adequate and feasible criteria to assess the quality of practices is an important task. More than half of German oncologists have been asked for information about assisted suicide by their patients. In the wake of new laws in Germany and other countries this survey presents data on oncologists’ views regarding adequate regulation.
