Title: Automated relative binding free energy calculations from SMILES to ΔΔG
Authors: J. Harry Moore, Christian Margreitter, Jon Paul Janet, Ola Engkvist, Bert L. de Groot, Vytautas Gapsys
Year: 2023
Venue: Communications Chemistry
DOI: 10.1038/s42004-023-00859-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140266

Abstract:
In drug discovery, computational methods are a key part of making informed design decisions and prioritising experiments. In particular, optimizing compound affinity is a central concern during the early stages of development. In the last 10 years, alchemical free energy (FE) calculations have transformed our ability to incorporate accurate in silico potency predictions in design decisions, and represent the ‘gold standard’ for augmenting experiment-driven drug discovery. However, relative FE calculations are complex to set up, require significant expert intervention to prepare the calculation and analyse the results or are provided only as closed-source software, not allowing for fine-grained control over the underlying settings. In this work, we introduce an end-to-end relative FE workflow based on the non-equilibrium switching approach that facilitates calculation of binding free energies starting from SMILES strings. The workflow is implemented using fully modular steps, allowing various components to be exchanged depending on licence availability. We further investigate the dependence of the calculated free energy accuracy on the initial ligand pose generated by various docking algorithms. We show that both commercial and open-source docking engines can be used to generate poses that lead to good correlation of free energies with experimental reference data. Relative binding free energy calculations are widely used to guide drug discovery by accurately computing binding affinity, however, these simulations remain complicated to set up, computationally expensive to run, and technically challenging to scale up. Here, the authors develop an end-to-end relative free energy workflow based on a non-equilibrium switching approach that calculates the binding free energies starting from SMILES strings.
