Title: Modelling and classifying joint trajectories of self-reported mood and pain in a large cohort study
Authors: Rajenki Das, Mark Muldoon, Mark Lunt, John McBeth, Belay Birlie Yimer, Thomas House
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS Digital Health
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pdig.0000204
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10062665

Abstract:
It is well-known that mood and pain interact with each other, however individual-level variability in this relationship has been less well quantified than overall associations between low mood and pain. Here, we leverage the possibilities presented by mobile health data, in particular the “Cloudy with a Chance of Pain” study, which collected longitudinal data from the residents of the UK with chronic pain conditions. Participants used an App to record self-reported measures of factors including mood, pain and sleep quality. The richness of these data allows us to perform model-based clustering of the data as a mixture of Markov processes. Through this analysis we discover four endotypes with distinct patterns of co-evolution of mood and pain over time. The differences between endotypes are sufficiently large to play a role in clinical hypothesis generation for personalised treatments of comorbid pain and low mood. Author summary Mood and pain are known to interact, and a mobile-phone application recorded information on the variations of mood and pain amongst people in the UK. Using this data, we observed that people have a general tendency of feeling the same mood and pain the next day. Studying further, we were able to separate the people into four groups- three of which were quite different from the general pattern of mood pain. The additional patterns we saw were 1) their mood and pain deteriorating the next day, 2) their mood and pain improving the next day and 3) mood is improving but pain deteriorates the next day. These additional characteristics tell us that there is no definite way that mood and pain are associated for everyone, and personalised treatment to tackle challenges in mood and pain can deliver better results.
