Title: ‘If you want to go far, go together’—community-based behaviour change interventions to improve antibiotic use: a systematic review of quantitative and qualitative evidence
Authors: Ioana Ghiga, Anna Sidorchuk, Emma Pitchforth, Cecilia Stålsby Lundborg, Anna Machowska
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy
DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkad128
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232266

Abstract:
Abstract Introduction A large proportion of the burden of infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria is linked to community-associated infections. This suggests that interventions set in community settings are needed. Currently there is a gap in understanding the potential of such interventions across all geographies. This systematic review aimed to synthesize the evidence on the value of community-based behaviour change interventions to improve antibiotic use. These are any interventions or innovations to services intended to stimulate behaviour changes among the public towards correct antibiotic use, delivered in a community setting and online. Methods Systematic searches of studies published after 2001 were performed in several databases. Of 14 319 articles identified, 73 articles comprising quantitative, qualitative and mixed-methods studies met the inclusion criteria. Results Findings showed positive emerging evidence of the benefits of community-based behaviour change interventions to improve antibiotic use, with multifaceted interventions offering the highest benefit. Interventions that combine educational aspects with persuasion may be more effective than solely educational interventions. The review uncovered difficulties in assessing this type of research and highlights the need for standardized approaches in study design and outcomes measurements. There is emerging, but limited, indication on these interventions’ cost-effectiveness. Conclusions Policy makers should consider the potential of community-based behaviour change interventions to tackle antimicrobial resistance (AMR), complementing the clinical-based approaches. In addition to the direct AMR benefits, these could serve also as a means of (re)building trust, due to their inclusive participation leading to greater public ownership and use of community channels.
