Title: Parental personality and early life ecology: a prospective cohort study from preconception to postpartum
Authors: Elizabeth A. Spry, Craig A. Olsson, Stephanie R. Aarsman, Hanafi Mohamad Husin, Jacqui A. Macdonald, S. Ghazaleh Dashti, Margarita Moreno-Betancur, Primrose Letcher, Ebony J. Biden, Kimberly C. Thomson, Helena McAnally, Christopher J. Greenwood, Melissa Middleton, Delyse M. Hutchinson, John B. Carlin, George C. Patton
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-29139-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971123

Abstract:
Personality reliably predicts life outcomes ranging from social and material resources to mental health and interpersonal capacities. However, little is known about the potential intergenerational impact of parent personality prior to offspring conception on family resources and child development across the first thousand days of life. We analysed data from the Victorian Intergenerational Health Cohort Study (665 parents, 1030 infants; est. 1992), a two-generation study with prospective assessment of preconception background factors in parental adolescence, preconception personality traits in young adulthood (agreeableness, conscientiousness, emotional stability, extraversion, and openness), and multiple parental resources and infant characteristics in pregnancy and after the birth of their child. After adjusting for pre-exposure confounders, both maternal and paternal preconception personality traits were associated with numerous parental resources and attributes in pregnancy and postpartum, as well as with infant biobehavioural characteristics. Effect sizes ranged from small to moderate when considering parent personality traits as continuous exposures, and from small to large when considering personality traits as binary exposures. Young adult personality, well before offspring conception, is associated with the perinatal household social and financial context, parental mental health, parenting style and self-efficacy, and temperamental characteristics of offspring. These are pivotal aspects of early life development that ultimately predict a child’s long-term health and development.
