Title: Identification of potential anti-pneumonia pharmacological components of Glycyrrhizae Radix et Rhizoma after the treatment with Gan An He Ji oral liquid
Authors: Xiaojuan Jiang, Yihua Lin, Yunlong Wu, Caixia Yuan, Xuli Lang, Jiayun Chen, Chunyan Zhu, Xinyi Yang, Yu Huang, Hao Wang, Caisheng Wu
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Pharmaceutical Analysis
DOI: 10.1016/j.jpha.2022.07.004
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805948

Abstract:
Glycyrrhizae Radix et Rhizoma, a traditional Chinese medicine also known as Gan Cao (GC), is frequently included in clinical prescriptions for the treatment of pneumonia. However, the pharmacological components of GC for pneumonia treatment are rarely explored. Gan An He Ji oral liquid (GAHJ) has a simple composition and contains GC liquid extracts and paregoric, and has been used clinically for many years. Therefore, GAHJ was selected as a compound preparation for the study of GC in the treatment of pneumonia. We conducted an in vivo study of patients with pneumonia undergoing GAHJ treatments for three days. Using the intelligent mass spectrometry data-processing technologies to analyze the metabolism of GC in vivo, we obtained 168 related components of GC in humans, consisting of 24 prototype components and 144 metabolites, with 135 compounds screened in plasma and 82 in urine. After analysis of the metabolic transformation relationship and relative exposure, six components (liquiritin, liquiritigenin, glycyrrhizin, glycyrrhetinic acid, daidzin, and formononetin) were selected as potential effective components. The experimental results based on two animal pneumonia models and the inflammatory cell model showed that the mixture of these six components was effective in the treatment of pneumonia and lung injury and could effectively downregulate the level of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Interestingly, glycyrrhetinic acid exhibited the strongest inhibition on iNOS and the highest exposure in vivo. The following molecular dynamic simulations indicated a strong bond between glycyrrhetinic acid and iNOS. Thus, the current study provides a pharmaceutical basis for GC and reveals the possible corresponding mechanisms in pneumonia treatment. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • The screening of the pharmacological components of GC in the treatment of pneumonia was reported for the first time. • GC was beneficial for the treatment of lung inflammation or damage by down-regulating the activity of iNOS. • The molecular binding between glycyrrhetinic acid and iNOS was verified. • The glycyrrhetinic acid was highly effective in down-regulating iNOS activity.
