Title: The Effect of 75 Grams of Glucose during OGTT on Plasma Markers of Lipid and Lipoprotein Peroxidation, Oxidized LDL and Thiobarbituric Acid Reactive Substances, in People with Increased Body Mass
Authors: Lena Bielawska, Ewa Wysocka, Aleksandra Baszczuk, Anna Dżumak, Aleksandra Ludziejewska, Maciej Cymerys, Alicja Płóciniczak
Year: 2023
Venue: Metabolites
DOI: 10.3390/metabo13040483
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140869

Abstract:
Obesity, currently defined as a disease, is associated with a number of metabolic disorders, and oxidative stress is discussed as the link between them. The aim of this study was to analyze the plasma markers reflecting oxidative modification of lipids and lipoproteins, oxidized LDL (oxLDL) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), under the influence of the 75 g of oral glucose during oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), in patients with increased body mass. One hundred twenty individuals of both genders (46 women and 74 men) aged 26 to 75 years with increased body mass (BMI > 25 kg/m 2 ) were recruited for the study. OGTT was performed in each of the qualified persons, and glycemia, insulinemia, and concentrations of oxLDL and TBARS were measured fasting and at 120 min of OGTT. The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) was used to assess the degree of insulin resistance (IR). In order to assess the changes of the investigated parameters under the influence of 75 g glucose, the index R OGTT = [120’]/[0’] was calculated to obtain oxLDL-R OGTT and TBARS-R OGTT . The statistical analysis was performed in the entire study population and subsequent groups from H1 to H4, defined by HOMA-IR quartiles. In the entire study population and the subgroups, oxidative stress markers changed during OGTT. From H1 to H4 group, increasing oxLDL and TBARS were observed both in the fasting state and at 120 min of OGTT, and the oxLDL-R OGTT index decreased from the H2 to the H4 group. The intensification of IR in people with increased body mass may predispose them to enhanced oxidative modification of lipoproteins. Individual reduction in the concentration of oxLDL during OGTT, in reference to fasting value (decreased oxLDL-R OGTT ), suggests increased uptake of modified lipoproteins by scavenger receptor-presenting cells or increased migration to the vascular wall.
