Title: Safety, Feasibility of Controllable Decrease of Vena Cava Pressure by Doraya Catheter in Heart Failure
Authors: Robert Zymliński, Jan Biegus, Marc Vanderheyden, Piotr Gajewski, Riet Dierckx, Jozef Bartunek, Piotr Ponikowski
Year: 2023
Venue: JACC: Basic to Translational Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.jacbts.2023.02.010
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149648

Abstract:
Visual Abstract Highlights • Elevated renal venous pressures are related to decreased renal perfusion pressures, which translate to renal dysfunction and an increased risk of worsening renal function. • The Doraya catheter was developed to perform a transient and controllable modification of renal venous pressure by creating a gradient in the inferior vena cava below the renal veins. • In 9 acute heart failure patients, Doraya catheter deployment created a gradient in the inferior vena cava (below vs above the device), resulting in a decrease of central venous pressure above the catheter from 18.4 ± 3.8 mm Hg to 12.4 ± 4.7 mm Hg ( P < 0.001). • The procedure was found to be safe, with no adverse events related to increased venous pressures below the catheter or embolic events during or following the procedure. Summary Lowering elevated central venous pressure may reduce renal dysfunction in acute heart failure (AHF) patients. The Doraya catheter lowers renal venous pressure by creating a gradient in the inferior vena cava below the renal veins. Here, we present a first-in-human feasibility study of the Doraya catheter performed on 9 AHF patients. We assessed the safety, feasibility, and acute clinical (hemodynamic and renal) effects of transient Doraya catheter deployment when added to the standard diuretic-based regimen in AHF patients with a poor diuretic response. The procedures decreased central venous pressure from 18.4 ± 3.8 mm Hg to 12.4 ± 4.7 mm Hg ( P < 0.001) and improved mean diuresis and clinical signs of congestion. No device-related serious adverse events were observed. Thus, Doraya catheter deployment was safe and feasible in AHF patients. (First In Human Study of the Doraya Catheter for the Treatment of AHF Patients; NCT03234647 )
