Title: An Improved High-Sensitivity Airborne Transient Electromagnetic Sensor for Deep Penetration
Authors: Shudong Chen, Shuxu Guo, Haofeng Wang, Miao He, Xiaoyan Liu, Yu Qiu, Shuang Zhang, Zhiwen Yuan, Haiyang Zhang, Dong Fang, Jun Zhu
Year: 2017
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s17010169
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5298742

Abstract:
The investigation depth of transient electromagnetic sensors can be effectively increased by reducing the system noise, which is mainly composed of sensor internal noise, electromagnetic interference (EMI), and environmental noise, etc. A high-sensitivity airborne transient electromagnetic (AEM) sensor with low sensor internal noise and good shielding effectiveness is of great importance for deep penetration. In this article, the design and optimization of such an AEM sensor is described in detail. To reduce sensor internal noise, a noise model with both a damping resistor and a preamplifier is established and analyzed. The results indicate that a sensor with a large diameter, low resonant frequency, and low sampling rate will have lower sensor internal noise. To improve the electromagnetic compatibility of the sensor, an electromagnetic shielding model for a central-tapped coil is established and discussed in detail. Previous studies have shown that unclosed shields with multiple layers and center grounding can effectively suppress EMI and eddy currents. According to these studies, an improved differential AEM sensor is constructed with a diameter, resultant effective area, resonant frequency, and normalized equivalent input noise of 1.1 m, 114 m 2 , 35.6 kHz, and 13.3 nV/m 2 , respectively. The accuracy of the noise model and the shielding effectiveness of the sensor have been verified experimentally. The results show a good agreement between calculated and measured results for the sensor internal noise. Additionally, over 20 dB shielding effectiveness is achieved in a complex electromagnetic environment. All of these results show a great improvement in sensor internal noise and shielding effectiveness.
