Title: Mechanism of temperature-induced asymmetric swelling and shrinking kinetics in self-healing hydrogels
Authors: Kunpeng Cui, Chengtao Yu, Ya Nan Ye, Xueyu Li, Jian Ping Gong
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2207422119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457170

Abstract:
Significance Self-healing hydrogels are increasingly finding use in diverse applications, such as artificial biological tissues, soft machines, and biosensors. Understanding the physical principle that governs the swelling and shrinking kinetics of self-healing hydrogels is indispensable for their applications but quite limited. Here, we show that the shrinking and swelling kinetics of self-healing hydrogels could be intrinsically asymmetric. The swelling kinetics is governed by the permanently crosslinked network structure, whereas the shrinking kinetics is governed by structure frustration, formed due to large differences in the heat and solvent diffusions. This study provides a useful step toward elucidating the essential physics governing the swelling and shrinking of self-healing hydrogels upon temperature change. Understanding the physical principle that governs the stimuli-induced swelling and shrinking kinetics of hydrogels is indispensable for their applications. Here, we show that the shrinking and swelling kinetics of self-healing hydrogels could be intrinsically asymmetric. The structure frustration, formed by the large difference in the heat and solvent diffusions, remarkably slows down the shrinking kinetics. The plateau modulus of viscoelastic gels is found to be a key parameter governing the formation of structure frustration and, in turn, the asymmetric swelling and shrinking kinetics. This work provides fundamental understandings on the temperature-triggered transient structure formation in self-healing hydrogels. Our findings will find broad use in diverse applications of self-healing hydrogels, where cooperative diffusion of water and gel network is involved. Our findings should also give insight into the molecular diffusion in biological systems that possess macromolecular crowding environments similar to self-healing hydrogels.
