Title: Prevalence and Characteristics of Self-Reported Adult Asthma in Cyprus: A Population-Based Observational Study
Authors: Kleomenis D Benidis, Eleni Tzortzaki, Andreas Georgiou, Theodora Zachariadou, Tonia Adamidi, Savvas Zannetos, Petros Bakakos, Nikolaos G Koulouris, Nikoletta Rovina
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Asthma and Allergy
DOI: 10.2147/JAA.S397784
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974514

Abstract:
Purpose To estimate the prevalence of asthma in adults, by gender and age, in urban and rural areas of Cyprus. Patients and Methods This was a population-based, random-digit dialing, telephone nation-wide survey to recruit patients with asthma. Among 8996 random landline-telephone contacted from the five major urban and rural regions of Cyprus, 1914 were finally met the age criterion of ≥18 years old and 572 completed valid screening for prevalence estimation. The participants filled a short screening questionnaire in order for asthma cases to be recognized. Then, asthma cases filled the main ECRHS II questionnaire and were evaluated by a pulmonary physician. All underwent spirometry. Data on demographic characteristics, educational level, profession, smoking status, Body Mass Index (BMI), Total IgE and Eosinophil Cationic Protein levels were measured. Results The overall prevalence of bronchial asthma in adults in Cyprus was 5.57% (61.1% men and 38.9% women). Among the participants with self-reported bronchial asthma 36.1% were current smokers, while 12.3% were obese (BMI >30). A total value of IgE >115 IU and Eosinophil Cationic Protein (ECP) >20 IU was found in 40% of the participants with established bronchial asthma. Wheezing and chest tightness were the most frequently reported symptoms in asthma patients (36.1% and 34.5%, respectively), while 36.5% experienced at least one exacerbation during the last year. Interestingly, most of the patients were under-treated (14.2% were on maintenance asthma treatment, and 18% used solely reliever medication). Conclusion This was the first study estimating asthma prevalence in Cyprus. Asthma affects almost 6% of the adult population, with higher prevalence in urban areas and in men compared to women. Interestingly, one-third of the patients were uncontrolled and under-treated. This study revealed that in Cyprus there is space for improvement in the management of asthma.
