Title: High-resolution patterns and inequalities in ambient fine particle mass (PM 2.5 ) and black carbon (BC) in the Greater Accra Metropolis, Ghana
Authors: Abosede S. Alli, Sierra N. Clark, Jiayuan Wang, James Bennett, Allison F. Hughes, Majid Ezzati, Michael Brauer, James Nimo, Josephine Bedford-Moses, Solomon Baah, Alicia Cavanaugh, Samuel Agyei-Mensah, George Owusu, Jill Baumgartner, Raphael E. Arku
Year: 2023
Venue: The Science of the Total Environment
DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.162582
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10131145

Abstract:
Growing cities in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) experience high levels of ambient air pollution. However, sparse long-term city-wide air pollution exposure data limits policy mitigation efforts and assessment of the health and climate effects. In the first study of its kind in West Africa, we developed high resolution spatiotemporal land use regression (LUR) models to map fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 ) and black carbon (BC) concentrations in the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area (GAMA), one of the fastest sprawling metropolises in SSA. We conducted a one-year measurement campaign covering 146 sites and combined these data with geospatial and meteorological predictors to develop separate Harmattan and non-Harmattan season PM 2.5 and BC models at 100 m resolution. The final models were selected with a forward stepwise procedure and performance was evaluated with 10-fold cross-validation. Model predictions were overlayed with the most recent census data to estimate the population distribution of exposure and socioeconomic inequalities in exposure at the census enumeration area level. The fixed effects components of the models explained 48–69 % and 63–71 % of the variance in PM 2.5 and BC concentrations, respectively. Spatial variables related to road traffic and vegetation explained the most variability in the non-Harmattan models, while temporal variables were dominant in the Harmattan models. The entire GAMA population is exposed to PM 2.5 levels above the World Health Organization guideline, including even the Interim Target 3 (15 μg/m 3 ), with the highest exposures in poorer neighborhoods. The models can be used to support air pollution mitigation policies, health, and climate impact assessments. The measurement and modelling approach used in this study can be adapted to other African cities to bridge the air pollution data gap in the region. Graphical abstract Unlabelled Image Highlights • Few long-term city-wide air pollution exposure data exists in growing SSA cities. • We provide the first space-time city-wide mapping of PM 2.5 and BC in West Africa. • Monitoring data at 146 sites were combined with GIS, weather, and census variables. • Models explained 48–69 % and 63–71 % of the variance in PM 2.5 and BC, respectively. • PM 2.5 levels were above the WHO IT-3 with higher exposures in poorer neighborhoods.
