Title: Causes of Increased Use of Closed Reduction and Internal Fixation for High-Energy-Related Traumatic Sacral Fractures
Authors: Yi-Hsun Yu, Ping-Jui Tsai, Chang-Heng Liu, I.-Jung Chen, Yung-Heng Hsu, Ying-Chao Chou, I.-Chuan Tseng
Year: 2022
Venue: World Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00268-022-06876-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971072

Abstract:
Background Reasons for the increased use of closed reduction and internal fixation (CRIF) for traumatic sacral fractures (SFs) are unclear in the literature. Therefore, we aimed to report the annual changes in the number of patients, mechanisms of injury, fracture patterns, and fixation methods. Methods In this retrospective study, we extracted data of 271 patients (mean age, 37.5 years) from the trauma register over an 8-year period. Annual records regarding the number of patients, injury mechanisms, fracture types, and treatment options were statistically analyzed to examine the interactions among these factors. Results The number of patients with SFs increased significantly each year. The rate of admission to the intensive care unit after resuscitation was high (64.9%). Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Osteosynthesefragen (AO) type C pelvic ring injury (PRI), Dennis zone II injury, Roy-Camille type 2 injury, and U/H-type injury were the most common fracture types. Trans-iliac trans-sacral screws were mainly used in AO type B PRI, and their use significantly increased each year. For AO type C PRI, open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) with rigid fixation was the main treatment, and the use of CRIF with iliosacral screws decreased each year. Stepwise statistical analysis revealed that the increase in AO type B PRI and ORIF for anterior PRI were the factors contributing to the increased use of CRIF for SFs. Conclusions While the use of osteosynthesis for SFs is increasing, an increased use of CRIF for traumatic SFs has also been observed in clinical practice. This increase can be attributed to the increase in AO type B PRIs and ORIF for anterior PRIs.
