Title: Proximal and Distal Vagal Indigestion in Buffaloes ( Bubalus bubalis ) in the Amazon Biome
Authors: José Diomedes Barbosa, Marilene Farias Brito, André de Medeiros Costa Lins, Camila Cordeiro Barbosa, Paulo Sérgio Chagas da Costa, Marcos Dutra Duarte, Tatiane Teles Albernaz Ferreira, Natália da Silva e Silva Silveira, Carlos Magno Chaves Oliveira, Felipe Masiero Salvarani
Year: 2023
Venue: Veterinary Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/vetsci10040254
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140838

Abstract:
Simple Summary The buffalo industry has great importance in the state of Pará in the Amazon biome, as it contributes to society in economic and cultural ways. Thus, it is necessary to know the disorders that affect this species. However, there are no reports in Brazilian literature and only a single article in the international literature on vagal indigestion. Thus, in this work, we describe two different cases of the disease in buffaloes ad present the clinical results as well as complementary exams and macroscopic necropsy findings. A significant finding is chronic distal stenosis in Buffalo 2, which generally occurs in an acute form. Abstract This study aims to describe the clinical signs and ultrasonographic and necropsy findings of the first cases of proximal (Buffalo 1) and distal (Buffalo 2) vagal indigestion in two Bubalus bubalis in the Brazilian Amazon biome. The clinical histories of the buffaloes were characterized by progressive weight loss, recurrent tympany, abdominal distention (apple and pear shapes), anorexia, and scant feces. Buffalo 1 was submitted to orogastric intubation, and due to the recurrent tympany, an exploratory laparotomy. Buffalo 2 was submitted to ultrasound examination, and a segment of the pylorus was shown to be adhered to the eventration by ultrasonography. Both animals produced positive results for the atropine test. In the necropsy evaluation, Buffalo 1 was shown to have dilation of the esophagus, rumen, and reticulum; the ruminal contents of animal 1 were olive green and foamy with bubbles within the ingesta. On the other hand, Buffalo 2 was shown to have distention of the forestomach and abomasum; the complex rumen–reticulum and omasum contents were semi-liquid and had a yellowish color. In animal 2, in the eventration region, there was adherence to the pyloric region. The diagnosis of vagal indigestion was based on the history, clinical signs, and ultrasound and necropsy findings, in addition to the results of the atropine test.
