Title: CD28-CAR-T cell activation through FYN kinase signaling rather than LCK enhances therapeutic performance
Authors: Ling Wu, Joanna Brzostek, Previtha Dawn Sakthi Vale, Qianru Wei, Clara K.T. Koh, June Xu Hui Ong, Liang-zhe Wu, Jia Chi Tan, Yen Leong Chua, Jiawei Yap, Yuan Song, Vivian Jia Yi Tan, Triscilla Y.Y. Tan, Junyun Lai, Paul A. MacAry, Nicholas R.J. Gascoigne
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100917
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975250

Abstract:
Summary Signal transduction induced by chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is generally believed to rely on the activity of the SRC family kinase (SFK) LCK, as is the case with T cell receptor (TCR) signaling. Here, we show that CAR signaling occurs in the absence of LCK. This LCK-independent signaling requires the related SFK FYN and a CD28 intracellular domain within the CAR. LCK-deficient CAR-T cells are strongly signaled through CAR and have better in vivo efficacy with reduced exhaustion phenotype and enhanced induction of memory and proliferation. These distinctions can be attributed to the fact that FYN signaling tends to promote proliferation and survival, whereas LCK signaling promotes strong signaling that tends to lead to exhaustion. This non-canonical signaling of CAR-T cells provides insight into the initiation of both TCR and CAR signaling and has important clinical implications for improvement of CAR function. Graphical abstract Highlights • Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) can initiate signaling in T cells lacking LCK • CD28 domain and SRC family kinase FYN play a role in LCK-independent CAR signaling • Disrupting LCK in CAR-T cell ( disLCK -CAR-T) improves the function and immunophenotype • DisLCK -CAR-T shows elevated anti-tumor efficacy and the potential for allogeneic use Wu et al. discover that LCK, an essential kinase for TCR signaling, is dispensable for CAR signaling. CD28 domain and the kinase FYN mediate this LCK-independent signaling. LCK-disrupted CAR-T shows increased in vivo anti-tumor efficacy—attributed to the improved memory/persistence and reduced exhaustion—and the potential for allogeneic use.
