Title: Morbidity hotspot surveillance: A novel approach to detect lymphatic filariasis transmission in non-endemic areas of the Tillabéry region of Niger
Authors: Xavier Badia-Rius, Salissou Adamou, Mark J. Taylor, Louise A. Kelly-Hope
Year: 2023
Venue: Parasite Epidemiology and Control
DOI: 10.1016/j.parepi.2023.e00300
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149363

Abstract:
The Niger Lymphatic Filariasis (LF) Programme is making good progress towards the elimination goal and scaling up morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) activities. Clinical case mapping and the increased availability of services has prompted patients to come forward in both endemic and non-endemic districts. The latter included Filingué, Baleyara and Abala districts of the Tillabéry region, and in 2019, 315 patients were found during a follow-up active case finding activity, suggesting it may have low transmission. The aim of this study was to assess the endemicity status in areas reporting clinical cases, ‘morbidity hotspots’, in three non-endemic districts of the Tillabéry region. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 12 villages in June 2021. Filarial antigen was detected using the rapid Filariasis Test Strip (FTS) diagnostic, and information obtained on gender, age, residency length, bed net ownership and usage, and presence of hydrocoele and/or lymphoedema. Data were summarised and mapped using QGIS software. A total of 4058 participants between 5 and 105 years old were surveyed, with 29 (0.7%) participants found to be FTS positive. Baleyara district had significantly higher FTS positive rates than the other districts. No significant differences were found by gender (male 0.8%; female 0.6%), age group (<26 years 0.7%; ≥26 years 0. 7%), and residency length (<5 years 0.7%; ≥5 years 0.7%). Three villages reported no infections; seven villages <1%, one village 1.1% and one village 4.1%, which was on the border of an endemic district. Bed net ownership (99.2%) and usage (92.6%) was very high and there was no significant difference between FTS infection rates. The results indicate that there are low levels of transmission in populations, including children, living in districts previously classified as non-endemic. This has implications for the Niger LF programme in terms of delivering targeted mass drug administration (MDA) in transmission hotspots, and MMDP services, including hydrocoele surgery to patients. The use of morbidity data may be a practical proxy to trigger mapping of ongoing transmission in low endemic areas. Continued efforts to study morbidity hotspots, post-validation transmission, cross-border and cross-district endemicity are needed to meet the WHO NTD 2030 roadmap targets.
