Title: Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Tenosynovitis of the Hand: A 10-Year Experience at Two Centers in South Korea
Authors: Dong Hee Kim, Jun Yong Park, Hee-Chan Won, Jin Sung Park
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22248
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232306

Abstract:
Background The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical characteristics of nontuberculous mycobacterial tenosynovitis and to report the process of diagnosis and the outcomes of surgical debridement and drug administration in South Korea. Methods Between 2010 and 2019, 23 patients (10 men and 13 women) with nontuberculous tenosynovitis of the hand were treated at two centers. Their average age was 64 years, and the average duration of symptoms was 8 months (range, 1–36 months). Eight patients had a history of trauma or surgery. The average number of corticosteroid injections before diagnosis was 2.6 for 7 patients. All 23 patients were treated with a combination of extensive tenosynovectomy and antibiotics. Results Of the 23 patients, 20 were available for the final follow-up (1, lost to follow-up; 1, transferred to another hospital; and 1, died from a comorbidity). The most common species was Mycobacterium intracellulare (70%), followed by Mycobacterium abscessus (10%). The frequency of involvement of the extensor/flexor tendon was similar to that of the wrist/finger. The mean number of surgical debridement operations was 2.2. The average duration of antibiotic administration was 9.8 months. At the last follow-up, 3 patients were symptom-free with full range of motion at the involved site, 1 patient complained of localized swelling or pain with full range of motion, 1 patient was found to have a recurrence of infection in a finger, and 15 complained of restricted joint motion. Conclusions The most common species noted in patients with nontuberculous mycobacterial tenosynovitis was M. intracellulare . Patients with only 1 finger involved showed good range of motion at the final follow-up. Most patients experienced delayed wound healing and adverse effects from drug therapy during treatment and limited joint motion at the final follow-up.
