Title: Unusual X chromosome inactivation maintenance in female alveolar type 2 cells is correlated with increased numbers of X-linked escape genes and sex-biased gene expression
Authors: Isabel Sierra, Sarah Pyfrom, Aaron Weiner, Gan Zhao, Amanda Driscoll, Xiang Yu, Brian D. Gregory, Andrew E. Vaughan, Montserrat C. Anguera
Year: 2023
Venue: Stem Cell Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2022.12.005
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968984

Abstract:
Summary Sex differences exist for many lung pathologies, including COVID-19 and pulmonary fibrosis, but the mechanistic basis for this remains unclear. Alveolar type 2 cells (AT2s), which play a key role in alveolar lung regeneration, express the X-linked Ace2 gene that has roles in lung repair and SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, suggesting that X chromosome inactivation (XCI) in AT2s might impact sex-biased lung pathology. Here we investigate XCI maintenance and sex-specific gene expression profiles using male and female AT2s. Remarkably, the inactive X chromosome (Xi) lacks robust canonical Xist RNA “clouds” and less enrichment of heterochromatic modifications in human and mouse AT2s. We demonstrate that about 68% of expressed X-linked genes in mouse AT2s, including Ace2 , escape XCI. There are genome-wide expression differences between male and female AT2s, likely influencing both lung physiology and pathophysiologic responses. These studies support a renewed focus on AT2s as a potential contributor to sex-biased differences in lung disease. Highlights • XCI maintenance and sex-specific gene expression profiles of alveolar type 2 cells • The Xi lacks Xist RNA “clouds” and less heterochromatic mark enrichment • 68% of expressed X-linked genes in mouse AT2s, including Ace2 , escape XCI • Genome-wide sex-specific gene expression profile differences in AT2s Anguera, Vaughan, and colleagues show that lung alveolar type 2 (AT2s) cells maintain X chromosome inactivation with fewer epigenetic modifications on the inactive X, with very high numbers of X-linked genes that “escape” transcriptional silencing. AT2 cells also exhibit significant genome-wide sex-biased gene expression, which likely influences lung physiology and pathophysiologic responses.
