Title: Prevalence of non-contact and contact childhood sexual abuse: An Internet-based sample of men who have sex with men in China
Authors: Wenjian Xu, Lijun Zheng, Yong Zheng
Year: 2017
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175444
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386252

Abstract:
Background The prevalence of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) is high among Western men who have sex with men (MSM), and CSA is associated with certain socio-demographic variables and with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) status. Little is known about CSA among Chinese MSM; therefore, we explored the prevalence and frequency of non-contact (e.g., sexual invitations, exhibitionism) and contact (e.g., intercourse, genital contact) forms of CSA in an Internet-based sample of MSM in China. We also examined the associations between the participants’ socio-demographic characteristics and HIV status, and their histories of CSA. Methods We surveyed MSM from 30 Chinese provinces in 2014–2015; 1,030 (mean age = 25.15 years, SD = 6.32) and 1,020 (mean age = 25.05 years, SD = 5.95) respondents were eligible for inclusion in the non-contact and contact CSA groups, respectively. Results Prevalence of non-contact and contact CSA was 36.2% and 29.8%, respectively; 20.4% and 15.0% had experienced non-contact and contact CSA ≥ 3 times, respectively. Most respondents were young adults, well educated, single, had never “come out,” and self-identified as gay or bisexual men. Univariate analyses showed that respondents who had experienced contact CSA were more likely to be HIV-positive than those who had never experienced contact CSA. Multivariate analyses showed that non-contact CSA was associated with less education, being in a relationship with a woman or a man, and having “come out.” Contact CSA was associated with less education, higher income, and being in a relationship with a man. Respondents who had experienced non-contact CSA ≥ 3 times were more likely to be less educated, “out,” and to be in a relationship with a woman or a man. Respondents who had experienced contact CSA ≥ 3 times were more likely to be less educated and to be in a relationship with a man. Conclusions It is necessary to pay closer attention to CSA among MSM and other sexual minorities in China.
