Title: Prostate Cancer Disparities and Management in Southern Africa: Insights into Practices, Norms and Values
Authors: Rahaba Marima, Mandisa Mbeje, Rodney Hull, Demetra Demetriou, Nompumelelo Mtshali, Zodwa Dlamini
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Management and Research
DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S382903
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805733

Abstract:
Abstract Prostate cancer (PCa) is a leading cause of mortality in men of African origin. While men of African descent in high-income countries (HICs) demonstrate poor prognosis compared to their European counterparts, African men on the African continent, particularly Southern Africa have shown even higher PCa mortality rates. Extrinsic factors such as the socioeconomic status, education level, income level, geographic location and race contribute to PCa patient outcome. These are further deepened by the African norms which are highly esteemed and may have detrimental effects on PCa patients’ health. Insights into African cultures and social constructs have been identified as key elements towards improving men’s health care seeking behaviour which will in turn improve PCa patients’ outcome. Compared to Southern Africa, the Eastern, Western and Central African regions have lower PCa incidence rates but higher mortality rates. The availability of cancer medical equipment has also been reported to be disproportionate in Africa, with most cancer resources in Northern and Southern Africa. Even within Southern Africa, cancer management resources are unevenly available where one country must access PCa specialised care in the neighbouring countries. While PCa seems to be better managed in HICs, steps towards effective PCa management are urgently needed in Africa, as this continent represents a significant portion of low–middle-income countries (LMICs). Replacing African men in Africa with African American men may not optimally resolve PCa challenges in Africa. Adopting western PCa management practices can be optimised by integrating improved core-African norms. The aim of this review is to discuss PCa disparities in Africa, deliberate on the significance of integrating African norms around masculinity and discuss challenges and opportunities towards effective PCa care in Africa, particularly in Southern Africa.
