Title: Setting the Tibial Component Rotation Based on Femoral Landmarks Allows Congruent Knee Kinematics in Robotic-Assisted Medial Unicompartmental Knee Replacement
Authors: Matteo Innocenti, Luigi Zanna, Mustafa Akkaya, Kim Huber, Bernhard Christen, Tilman Calliess
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Personalized Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jpm13040632
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141020

Abstract:
The accurate positioning of the prosthetic components is essential for achieving successful results in medial unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (mUKA). The tibial component rotation in image-based robotic-assisted UKA is usually based on tibial bony landmarks matched to the pre-operative CT model. The study aimed to evaluate whether setting the tibial rotation on femoral CT-based landmarks allows congruent knee kinematics. We retrospectively analyzed data from 210 consecutive image-based robotic-assisted mUKA cases. In every case, we set the tibia rotation landmark parallel to the posterior condylar axis and centered it on the trochlea groove defined on the preoperative CT scan. The implant positioning was primarily set parallel to this rotation landmark and then adjusted based on tibial sizes avoiding component over- or under-hang. During surgery, we recorded the knee kinematics under valgus stress to reduce the arthritic deformity. A femoral-tibial contact point was recorded over the entire range of motion and displayed as a tracking profile on the tibia implant. The femoro-tibial tracking angle (FTTA) was then calculated based on a tangent line to the femoro-tibial tracking-points and the difference to the femur-based rotation landmark. In 48% of the cases, we could position the tibia component exactly to the femoral rotation landmark, whereas in 52% of cases, minimal adjustments were made to avoid component’s under- or over-hang. The mean tibia component rotation (TRA) with reference to our femur-based landmark was +0.24° (SD ± 2.9°). The femur-based tibia rotation landmark showed a high correspondence to the FTTA with 60% of the cases having less than 1° of deviation. Mean FTTA was +0.7° (SD ± 2.2°). The mean difference between the absolute value of the TRA and the FTTA (|TRA| − |FTTA|) was −0.18° (SD ± 2°). Setting the tibial component rotation based on CT scan femoral landmarks and not on tibial anatomical landmarks is a reliable method to obtain congruent knee kinematics during image-based robotic-assisted medial UKA with less the 2° deviations on average.
