Title: Prediction of long-term survival after gastrectomy using random survival forests
Authors: S A Rahman, N Maynard, N Trudgill, T Crosby, M Park, H Wahedally, T J Underwood, D A Cromwell
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab237
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364915

Abstract:
Abstract Background No well validated and contemporaneous tools for personalized prognostication of gastric adenocarcinoma exist. This study aimed to derive and validate a prognostic model for overall survival after surgery for gastric adenocarcinoma using a large national dataset. Methods National audit data from England and Wales were used to identify patients who underwent a potentially curative gastrectomy for adenocarcinoma of the stomach. A total of 2931 patients were included and 29 clinical and pathological variables were considered for their impact on survival. A non-linear random survival forest methodology was then trained and validated internally using bootstrapping with calibration and discrimination (time-dependent area under the receiver operator curve (tAUC)) assessed. Results The median survival of the cohort was 69 months, with a 5-year survival of 53.2 per cent. Ten variables were found to influence survival significantly and were included in the final model, with the most important being lymph node positivity, pT stage and achieving an R0 resection. Patient characteristics including ASA grade and age were also influential. On validation the model achieved excellent performance with a 5-year tAUC of 0.80 (95 per cent c.i. 0.78 to 0.82) and good agreement between observed and predicted survival probabilities. A wide spread of predictions for 3-year (14.8–98.3 (i.q.r. 43.2–84.4) per cent) and 5-year (9.4–96.1 (i.q.r. 31.7–73.8) per cent) survival were seen. Conclusions A prognostic model for survival after a potentially curative resection for gastric adenocarcinoma was derived and exhibited excellent discrimination and calibration of predictions. This article describes the derivation and validation of a population-based machine learning model to predict overall survival after surgery for gastric adenocarcinoma. It provided excellent discrimination and calibration and will be of use to all clinicians treating patients with this disease.
