Title: Smartphone-assisted microfluidic and spectrophotometric recognition of hydrazine: a new platform towards rapid analysis of carcinogenic agents and environmental technology †
Authors: Kambiz Ghaseminasab, Nastaran Aletaha, Mohammad Hasanzadeh
Year: 2023
Venue: RSC Advances
DOI: 10.1039/d2ra07761b
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890555

Abstract:
Hydrazine (Hyd), a poisonous substance, is frequently employed in agriculture and industry as a scavenger to remove residues of oxygen from boiler feed water, electrical power plants, etc. Even at trace amounts, these chemicals are hazardous to humans. To limit the risks of exposure, there is a critical need for sensors for the monitoring of Hyd concentration to guarantee they are below harmful levels. In comparison to other approaches, the colorimetric method has garnered a great deal of interest due to its high sensitivity, speed, convenience, and simple optical color change detection. This study's primary purpose is to develop a portable tool for the colorimetric and spectrophotometric detection of Hyd using silver nanoparticles (silver nanoprism (AgNPr), silver nanowires (AgNW), and silver citrate (AgCit)). In addition, UV-visible spectroscopy was utilized for the quantitation evaluation of Hyd in real samples. The proposed approach demonstrated a linear range of 0.08 M to 6 M for Hyd by AgNW and 0.02 to 5 M by AgNPr as optical probes, whereas AgCit exhibited no color change (negative response). Using AgNPr and AgNW, the low limit of detection of Hyd was 200 μM and 800 μM, respectively. In addition, a novel method was employed for the first time to explore the effect of time on the determination of the candidate analyte. Consequently, the proposed method can be utilized to detect Hyd in real samples. Therefore, our method shows both qualitative and quantitative measurement of Hyd with high sensitivity, low cost, and fast analysis time and promisingly it can be industrialized for quick detection of Hyd in aquatic real samples. Hydrazine (Hyd), a poisonous substance, is frequently employed in agriculture and industry as a scavenger to remove residues of oxygen from boiler feed water, electrical power plants, etc.
