Title: A Novel Aging-Related Prognostic lncRNA Signature Correlated with Immune Cell Infiltration and Response to Immunotherapy in Breast Cancer
Authors: Zhixin Liu, Chongkang Ren, Jinyi Cai, Baohui Yin, Jingjie Yuan, Rongjuan Ding, Wenzhuo Ming, Yunxiao Sun, Youjie Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083283
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141963

Abstract:
Breast cancer (BC) is among the most universal malignant tumors in women worldwide. Aging is a complex phenomenon, caused by a variety of factors, that plays a significant role in tumor development. Consequently, it is crucial to screen for prognostic aging-related long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in BC. The BC samples from the breast-invasive carcinoma cohort were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The differential expression of aging-related lncRNAs (DEarlncRNAs) was screened by Pearson correlation analysis. Univariate Cox regression, LASSO–Cox analysis, and multivariate Cox analysis were performed to construct an aging-related lncRNA signature. The signature was validated in the GSE20685 dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Subsequently, a nomogram was constructed to predict survival in BC patients. The accuracy of prediction performance was assessed through the time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, Kaplan–Meier analysis, principal component analyses, decision curve analysis, calibration curve, and concordance index. Finally, differences in tumor mutational burden, tumor-infiltrating immune cells, and patients’ response to chemotherapy and immunotherapy between the high- and low-risk score groups were explored. Analysis of the TCGA cohort revealed a six aging-related lncRNA signature consisting of MCF2L-AS1, USP30-AS1, OTUD6B-AS1, MAPT-AS1, PRR34-AS1, and DLGAP1-AS1. The time-dependent ROC curve proved the optimal predictability for prognosis in BC patients with areas under curves (AUCs) of 0.753, 0.772, and 0.722 in 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. Patients in the low-risk group had better overall survival and significantly lower total tumor mutational burden. Meanwhile, the high-risk group had a lower proportion of tumor-killing immune cells. The low-risk group could benefit more from immunotherapy and some chemotherapeutics than the high-risk group. The aging-related lncRNA signature can provide new perspectives and methods for early BC diagnosis and therapeutic targets, especially tumor immunotherapy.
