Title: Single-Stage Posterior Approach for Multilevel Cervical Ossification of the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament With K-line (−) Using Thick Cervical Pedicle Screw System: A Technical Note and Preliminary Results
Authors: Yue-Hui Zhang, Hai-Tao Liu, Fu-Chao Zhou, Jia Song, Jiang Shao
Year: 2021
Venue: Global Spine Journal
DOI: 10.1177/2192568221997078
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9972262

Abstract:
Study Design: Technical note, retrospective case series. Objective: The optimal surgical strategy for multilevel cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) with a negative kyphosis line (K-line (−)) remains controversial. We present a novel single-stage posterior approach that converts the K-line from negative to positive in patients with multilevel cervical OPLL, using a posterior thick cervical pedicle screw (CPS) system and report the procedure’s outcomes and feasibility. Methods: Twelve consecutive patients with multilevel cervical OPLL and K-line (−) underwent single-stage posterior thick CPS fixation, with laminectomy and foraminal decompression. A pre-bent rod was installed to convert the K-line from negative to positive. Radiographic parameters, including the extent and occupying ratio of OPLL and the C2-C7 angle, were examined. CPS accuracy was assessed using computed tomography. The Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) and visual analog scale (VAS) scores were analyzed. Quality of life was assessed using the Neck Disability Index (NDI). The mean OPLL extent was 5 vertebral body levels, and posterior decompression was performed on 4.2 segments. Results: The average C2-C7 angle and the occupying ratio of OPLL improved from −9.0° to 14.3° and from 63% to 33%, respectively. The preoperative JOA, VAS, and NDI scores significantly improved from 8.4 to 13.3, from 7.1 to 2.2, and from 21.9 to 9.3, respectively. The K-line was converted from negative to positive in all cases. No severe complications were identified. Conclusion: Single-stage posterior surgery with a thick CPS system may be a reliable and effective treatment for multilevel cervical OPLL and K-line (−).
