Title: Stasis Dermatitis: An Overview of Its Clinical Presentation, Pathogenesis, and Management
Authors: Gil Yosipovitch, Susan T. Nedorost, Jonathan I. Silverberg, Adam J. Friedman, Juliana M. Canosa, Amy Cha
Year: 2023
Venue: American Journal of Clinical Dermatology
DOI: 10.1007/s40257-022-00753-5
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968263

Abstract:
Stasis dermatitis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease of the lower extremities. It typically occurs in older individuals and is the cutaneous manifestation of venous hypertension caused by venous reflux. Such retrograde venous blood flow is the result of incompetent venous valves, valve destruction, or venous obstruction. Stasis dermatitis is eczematous. The associated impairment of venous valves may cause swelling of the legs, leading to serious conditions including venous ulcerations. Diagnosis can be challenging because of its clinical resemblance to other skin conditions and poor clinical recognition by physicians. The cornerstones of stasis dermatitis treatment are compression therapy to ameliorate pain and swelling, topical treatments to alleviate secondary skin changes, and interventional treatment options to correct the underlying causes of venous reflux. Given the central role of inflammation of the lower extremities in driving the cutaneous changes characteristic of stasis dermatitis, new therapeutic approaches that target the inflammation are under clinical evaluation in patients with stasis dermatitis. Plain Language Summary Stasis dermatitis is a skin disease that can affect a person for a long time. It affects the legs of older people who have a disease called chronic venous insufficiency. This is when a person’s veins have difficulty sending blood from their limbs back to their heart. Stasis dermatitis is caused by increased pressure inside a person’s veins. Its signs and symptoms are skin discoloration, itch, dryness, and scaling and can be similar to the signs and symptoms of cellulitis and allergic contact dermatitis. Cellulitis is a common skin infection caused by bacteria. Cellulitis causes redness, swelling, and pain. Allergic contact dermatitis is an itchy skin rash caused by contact with something that irritates the skin. Stasis dermatitis is usually diagnosed after a healthcare provider has looked at person’s skin and their medical history. Treatment for stasis dermatitis should treat the chronic venous insufficiency that causes the disease. It should also treat the skin lesions caused by stasis dermatitis. One way to treat stasis dermatitis is to reduce pain and swelling. This is done by applying pressure with compression stockings or bandages. Minor surgery can treat the venous insufficiency that causes stasis dermatitis. No treatments have been approved for the skin symptoms associated with stasis dermatitis. New ways to treat such symptoms need to be developed.
