Title: Molecular Identification of Culicoides Species and Host Preference Blood Meal in the African Horse Sickness Outbreak-Affected Area in Hua Hin District, Prachuap Khiri Khan Province, Thailand
Authors: Ketsarin Kamyingkird, Suchada Choocherd, Wissanuwat Chimnoi, Nutsuda Klinkaew, Chanya Kengradomkij, Pornkamol Phoosangwalthong, Nipa Thammasonthijarern, Khampee Pattanatanang, Tawin Inpankaew, Jumnongjit Phasuk, Burin Nimsuphan
Year: 2023
Venue: Insects
DOI: 10.3390/insects14040369
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141043

Abstract:
Simple Summary This study is to investigate the potential vectors of African horse sickness (AHS). Culicoides were collected near horse stables in Hua Hin district, Prachuab Khiri Khan province, Thailand, where horses were affected and died from AHS in 2020. Twelve Culicoides species were identified. The predominant Culicoides species in all farms was C. oxystoma followed by C. imicola. The Culicoides collected in this study fed on blood from horses, dogs, pigs, and humans for their blood meal. This study has identified the potential AHS vector Culicoides species and its zoonotic potential in this area for the first time. Abstract African horse sickness (AHS) was reported as an outbreak in Thailand in 2020. Hematophagous insects from the genus Culicoides are the suspected vector responsible for AHS transmission. Horses in Hua Hin district, Prachuab Khiri Khan province, Thailand, were affected and died from AHS in 2020. However, the potential Culicoides species and its host preference blood meal in the affected areas are unknown. To investigate the potential vectors of AHS, Culicoides were collected using ultraviolet light traps placed near horse stables. Six horse farms, including five farms with AHS history and one farm without AHS history, were included in this study. Morphological and molecular identification of the Culicoides species was performed. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting the cytochrome b oxidase I (COXI) gene for confirmation of the Culicoides species, identification of the prepronociceptin (PNOC) gene for host preference blood meal, and bidirectional sequencing were conducted. Consequently, 1008 female Culicoides were collected, consisting of 708 and 300 samples captured at positions A and B at a distance of <2 and >5 m from the horse, respectively. Twelve Culicoides species identified by morphology were noted, including C. oxystoma (71.92%), C. imicola (20.44%), C. actoni (2.28%), C. flavipunctatus (1.98%), C. asiana (0.99%), C. peregrinus (0.60%), C. huffi (0.60%), C. brevitarsis (0.40%), C. innoxius (0.30%), C. histrio (0.30%), C. minimus (0.10%), and C. geminus (0.10%). The PCR detection of the Culicoides COXI gene confirmed Culicoides species in 23 DNA samples. PCR targeting the PNOC gene revealed that the Culicoides collected in this study fed on Equus caballus (86.25%), Canis lupus familiaris (6.25%), Sus scrofa (3.75%), and Homo sapiens (3.75%) for their blood meal. Human blood was identified from two samples of C. oxystoma and a sample of C. imicola . Three dominant species including C. oxystoma , C. imicola, and C. actoni that were reported in the Hua Hin area prefer to feed on horse blood. Moreover, C. oxystoma , C. imicola , and C. bravatarsis also feed on canine blood. This study revealed the species of Culicoides in Hua Hin district, Thailand, after the AHS outbreak.
