Title: A snapshot on HIV-1 evolution through the identification of phylogenetic-specific properties of HIV-1 integrases M/O
Authors: Elenia Toccafondi, Marine Kanja, Flore Winter, Daniela Lener, Matteo Negroni
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS Pathogens
DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1011207
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10062586

Abstract:
Transmissions of simian viruses to humans has originated the different groups of HIV-1. We recently identified a functional motif (CLA), in the C-terminal domain of the integrase, essential for integration in HIV-1 group M. Here, we found that the motif is instead dispensable in group O isolates, because of the presence, in the N-terminal domain of HIV-1 O of a specific sequence, Q 7 G 27 P 41 H 44 , that we define as the NOG motif. Alterations of reverse transcription and of 3’ processing observed by mutating the CLA motif of IN M are fully rescued to wt levels by inserting the sequence of the NOG motif in the N-ter of the protein. These results indicate that the two motifs (CLA and NOG) functionally complement each other and a working model accounting for these observations is proposed. The establishment of these two alternative motifs seems to be due to the different phylogenetic origin and history of these two groups. Indeed, the NOG motif is already present in the ancestor of group O (SIVgor) while it is absent from SIVcpz Ptt , the ancestor of group M. The CLA motif, instead, seems to have emerged after SIVcpz Ptt has been transferred to humans, since no conservation is found at the same positions in these simian viruses. These results show the existence of two-group specific motifs in HIV-1 M and O integrases. In each group, only one of the motifs is functional, potentially leading the other motif to diverge from its original function and, in an evolutionary perspective, assist other functions of the protein, further increasing HIV genetic diversity. Author summary HIV-1 establishes a permanent infection by integrating its genome in the one of the host cell. This key step is achieved by the viral integrase (IN), which is composed of three domains: N-terminal (NTD), catalytic core (CCD), and C-terminal (CTD). We recently reported, in the CTD, the existence of a functional motif (CLA) that is essential for integration in HIV-1 group M. Here we show that in HIV-1 group O, the function exerted by the integrase M CLA motif is instead ensured by another motif (NOG), located in the NTD of the protein. We show that these two motifs can functionally complement each other by acting on the same steps of the viral cycle, highlighting for the first time such an important functional duality between HIV-1 integrases. We also show that, while the NOG motif in HIV-1 O was likely inherited from its simian ancestor (SIVgor), the CLA motif seems to have emerged in the human host, probably in the process of adaptation to the new host of the simian virus on its way to become HIV-1 M. Such a requirement did not seem to have existed for HIV-1 O, possibly because of the presence of the NOG motif.
