Title: Flogomicina: A Natural Antioxidant Mixture as an Alternative Strategy to Reduce Biofilm Formation
Authors: Chiara Amante, Chiara De Soricellis, Gianni Luccheo, Luigi Luccheo, Paola Russo, Rita Patrizia Aquino, Pasquale Del Gaudio
Year: 2023
Venue: Life
DOI: 10.3390/life13041005
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142241

Abstract:
The National Institute of Health has reported that approximately 80% of chronic infections are associated with biofilms, which are indicated as one of the main reasons for bacteria’s resistance to antimicrobial agents. Several studies have revealed the role of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), in reducing biofilm formation induced by different microorganisms. A novel mixture made up of NAC and different natural ingredients (bromelain, ascorbic acid, Ribes nigrum, resveratrol, and pelargonium) has been developed in order to obtain a pool of antioxidants as an alternative strategy for biofilm reduction. The study has demonstrated that the mixture is able to significantly enhance NAC activity against different Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. It has shown an increase in NAC permeation in vitro through an artificial fluid, moving from 2.5 to 8 μg/cm 2 after 30 min and from 4.4 to 21.6 μg/cm 2 after 180 min, and exhibiting a strongly fibrinolytic activity compared to the single components of the mixture. Moreover, this novel mixture has exhibited an antibiofilm activity against S aureus and the ability to reduce S. aureus growth by more than 20% in a time-killing assay, while on E. coli , and P. mirabilis , the growth was reduced by more than 80% compared to NAC. The flogomicina mixture has also been proven capable of reducing bacterial adhesion to abiotic surfaces of E.coli , by more than 11% concerning only the NAC. In combination with amoxicillin, it has been shown to significantly increase the drug’s effectiveness after 14 days, offering a safe and natural way to reduce the daily dosage of antibiotics in prolonged therapies and consequently, reduce antibiotic resistance.
