Title: EpiSAFARI: sensitive detection of valleys in epigenetic signals for enhancing annotations of functional elements
Authors: Arif Harmanci, Akdes Serin Harmanci, Jyothishmathi Swaminathan, Vidya Gopalakrishnan
Year: 2020
Venue: Bioinformatics
DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btz702
Paper ID: pmc_PMC7703766

Abstract:
Abstract Motivation Functional genomics experiments generate genomewide signal profiles that are dense information sources for annotating the regulatory elements. These profiles measure epigenetic activity at the nucleotide resolution and they exhibit distinctive patterns as they fluctuate along the genome. Most notable of these patterns are the valley patterns that are prevalently observed in assays such as ChIP Sequencing and bisulfite sequencing. The genomic positions of valleys pinpoint locations of cis-regulatory elements such as enhancers and insulators. Systematic identification of the valleys provides novel information for delineating the annotation of regulatory elements. Nevertheless, the valleys are not reported by majority of the analysis pipelines. Results We describe EpiSAFARI, a computational method for sensitive detection of valleys from diverse types of epigenetic profiles. EpiSAFARI employs a novel smoothing method for decreasing noise in signal profiles and accounts for technical factors such as sparse signals, mappability and nucleotide content. In performance comparisons, EpiSAFARI performs favorably in terms of accuracy. The histone modification valleys detected by EpiSAFARI exhibit high conservation, transcription factor binding and they are enriched in nascent transcription. In addition, the large clusters of histone valleys are found to be enriched at the promoters of the developmentally associated genes. Differential histone valleys exhibit concordance with differential DNase signal at cell line specific valleys. DNA methylation valleys exhibit elevated conservation and high transcription factor binding. Specifically, we observed enriched binding of transcription factors associated with chromatin structure around methyl-valleys. Availability and implementation EpiSAFARI is publicly available at https://github.com/harmancilab/EpiSAFARI . Supplementary information Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
