Title: Structural basis of envelope and phase intrinsic coupling modes in the cerebral cortex
Authors: Arnaud Messé, Karl J. Hollensteiner, Céline Delettre, Leigh-Anne Dell-Brown, Florian Pieper, Lena J. Nentwig, Edgar E. Galindo-Leon, Benoît Larrat, Sébastien Mériaux, Jean-François Mangin, Isabel Reillo, Camino de Juan Romero, Víctor Borrell, Gerhard Engler, Roberto Toro, Andreas K. Engel, Claus C. Hilgetag
Year: 2023
Venue: Neuroimage
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2023.120212
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10300241

Abstract:
Highlights • Extensive exploration of the relationship between intrinsic coupling modes and structural connectivity. • Phase and envelope coupling modes are specifically related to structural connectivity. • The observed relation between structural and functional coupling cannot be solely attributed to volume conduction. Graphical abstract Intrinsic coupling modes (ICMs) can be observed in ongoing brain activity at multiple spatial and temporal scales. Two families of ICMs can be distinguished: phase and envelope ICMs. The principles that shape these ICMs remain partly elusive, in particular their relation to the underlying brain structure. Here we explored structure-function relationships in the ferret brain between ICMs quantified from ongoing brain activity recorded with chronically implanted micro-ECoG arrays and structural connectivity (SC) obtained from high-resolution diffusion MRI tractography. Large-scale computational models were used to explore the ability to predict both types of ICMs. Importantly, all investigations were conducted with ICM measures that are sensitive or insensitive to volume conduction effects. The results show that both types of ICMs are significantly related to SC, except for phase ICMs when using measures removing zero-lag coupling. The correlation between SC and ICMs increases with increasing frequency which is accompanied by reduced delays. Computational models produced results that were highly dependent on the specific parameter settings. The most consistent predictions were derived from measures solely based on SC. Overall, the results demonstrate that patterns of cortical functional coupling as reflected in both phase and envelope ICMs are both related, albeit to different degrees, to the underlying structural connectivity in the cerebral cortex.
