Title: Dislocation theory of steady and transient creep of crystalline solids: Predictions for olivine
Authors: Thomas Breithaupt, Richard F. Katz, Lars N. Hansen, Kathryn M. Kumamoto
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2203448120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974449

Abstract:
Significance Many important deformation processes take place at strain rates that are too slow to be investigated experimentally. For example, strain rates in Earth’s mantle are typically ten orders of magnitude slower than in the laboratory. To bridge this gap, empirical relationships are extrapolated with large epistemic uncertainties. We propose a model for deformation derived from the microphysics of deformation. In application to olivine, the main mineral of Earth’s upper mantle, this model explains the scaling relationships observed under a range of laboratory conditions. In extrapolation to Earth’s mantle, the model predicts a transition in the dominant microphysical processes, leading to predictions distinct from previous studies. For instance, following abrupt stress changes, it predicts rapid transient deformation. In applications critical to the geological, materials, and engineering sciences, deformation occurs at strain rates too small to be accessible experimentally. Instead, extrapolations of empirical relationships are used, leading to epistemic uncertainties in predictions. To address these problems, we construct a theory of the fundamental processes affecting dislocations: storage and recovery. We then validate our theory for olivine deformation. This model explains the empirical relationships among strain rate, applied stress, and dislocation density in disparate laboratory regimes. It predicts the previously unexplained dependence of dislocation density on applied stress in olivine. The predictions of our model for Earth conditions differ from extrapolated empirical relationships. For example, it predicts rapid, transient deformation in the upper mantle, consistent with recent measurements of postseismic creep.
