Title: Postprandial Inflammatory and Metabolic Responses Induced by Authentic Mytilinis Cheese: A Preliminary, Crossover, Nutritional Intervention in Healthy Adults
Authors: Olga Papagianni, Angeliki Voutsa, Olga Katira, Panagiota Potsaki, Kalliopi Almpounioti, Konstantina Tzitziri, Dimitrios Skalkos, Antonios E. Koutelidakis
Year: 2023
Venue: Life
DOI: 10.3390/life13040923
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141237

Abstract:
Several Mediterranean traditional cheeses may present a beneficial effect on postprandial metabolic and inflammatory modulation due to the presence of bioactive components. The objective of the present preliminary nutritional intervention was the investigation of the postprandial metabolic responses after the intake of traditional Authentic Mytilinis cheese in olive oil with herbs, compared to the corresponding responses after consumption of Italian Parmesan cheese, in healthy participants. A pilot crossover, randomized, single-blinded, intervention clinical trial was conducted in 10 healthy men and women subjects, aged 18–30 years, after random allocation into the control and the intervention groups. The participants received a high-fat carbohydrate meal containing either Authentic Mytilinis cheese (the authentic nonrefrigerated recipe) or Italian Parmesan PDO cheese. After a washout week, the participants consumed the same meals conversely. Differences in the postprandial responses of glucose, triglycerides, uric acid and serum total, HDL and LDL cholesterol levels, as well as of the plasma total antioxidant capacity according to the FRAP method, were determined between groups for fasting, 30 min, 1.5 h, and 3 h after meal intake. The results suggested that meals did not significantly affect postprandial metabolic and inflammatory responses. However, Authentic L Mytilinis cheese resulted in a lower increase of LDL cholesterol ( p > 0.05) and induced a significant decrease of serum triglycerides ( p < 0.05) in the last 1.5 h after a meal, compared to Italian Parmesan cheese. Further investigation with large prospective studies is necessary to validate the current findings.
