Title: First-principles calculations to investigate structural, electronic, elastic and optical properties of radium based cubic fluoro-perovskite materials
Authors: Muhammad Khuram Shahzad, Shoukat Hussain, Muhammad Umair Farooq, Rashid Ali Laghari, Muhammad Hamza Bilal, Sajjad Ahmad Khan, Muhammad Bilal Tahir, Adnan Khalil, Jalil Ur Rehman, Muhammad Mahmood Ali
Year: 2023
Venue: Heliyon
DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e13687
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975092

Abstract:
Perovskite materials play a vital role in the field of material science via experimental as well as theoretical calculations. Radium semiconductor materials are considered the backbone of medical fields. These materials are considered in high technological fields to be used as controlling the decay ability. In this study, radium-based cubic fluoro-perovskite XRaF 3 (where X = Rb and Na) are calculated using a DFT (density functional theory). These compounds are cubic nature with 221 space groups that construct on CASTEP (Cambridge-serial-total-energy-package) software with ultra-soft PPPW (pseudo-potential plane-wave) and GGA (Generalized-Gradient-approximation)-PBE (Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof) exchange-correlation functional. The structural, optical, electronic, and mechanical properties of the compounds are calculated. According to the structural properties, NaRaF 3 and RbRaF 3 have a direct bandgap with 3.10eV and 4.187eV of NaRaF 3 and RbRaF 3 , respectively. Total density of states (DOS) and partial density of states (PDOS) provide confirmation to the degree of electrons localized in distinct bands. NaRaF 3 material is semiconductors and RbRaF 3 is insulator, according to electronic results. The imaginary element dispersion of the dielectric function reveals its wide variety of energy transparency. In both compounds, the optical transitions are examined by fitting the damping ratio for the notional dielectric function scaling to the appropriate peaks. The absorption and the conductivity of NaRaF 3 compound is better than the RbRaF 3 compound which make it suitable for the solar cell applications increasing the efficiency and work function. We observed that both compounds are mechanically stable with cubic structure. The criteria for the mechanical stability of compounds are also met by the estimated elastic results. These compounds have potential application in field of solar cell and medical. Objectives The band gap, absorption and the conductivity are necessary conditions for potential applications. Here, literature was reviewed to check computational translational insight into the relationships between absorption and conductivity for solar cell and medical applications of novel RbRaF 3 and NaRaF 3 compounds.
