Title: Production, Characterization, and In Vitro and In Vivo Studies of Nanoemulsions Containing St. John’s Wort Plant Constituents and Their Potential for the Treatment of Depression
Authors: Ahmad Salawi, Yosif Almoshari, Muhammad H. Sultan, Osama A. Madkhali, Mohammed Ali Bakkari, Meshal Alshamrani, Awaji Y. Safhi, Fahad Y. Sabei, Turki Al Hagbani, Md Sajid Ali, Md Sarfaraz Alam
Year: 2023
Venue: Pharmaceuticals
DOI: 10.3390/ph16040490
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141068

Abstract:
The current project was designed to prepare an oil-in-water (oil/water) hypericin nanoemulsion using eucalyptus oil for the preparation of an oil phase with chitosan as an emulsion stabilizer. The study might be a novelty in the field of pharmaceutical sciences, especially in the area of formulation development. Tween ® 80 (Polysorbate) was used as the nonionic surfactant. The nanoemulsion was prepared by using the homogenization technique, followed by its physicochemical evaluation. The surface morphological studies showed the globular structure has a nano-sized diameter, as confirmed by zeta size analysis. The zeta potential analysis confirmed a positive surface charge that might be caused by the presence of chitosan in the formulation. The pH was in the range of 5.14 to 6.11, which could also be compatible with the range of nasal pH. The viscosity of the formulations was found to be affected by the concentration of chitosan (F1-11.61 to F4-49.28). The drug release studies showed that the presence of chitosan greatly influenced the drug release, as it was noticed that formulations having an elevated concentration of chitosan release lesser amounts of the drug. The persistent stress in the mouse model caused a variety of depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors that can be counteracted by chemicals isolated from plants, such as sulforaphane and tea polyphenols. In the behavioral test and source performance test, hypericin exhibited antidepressant-like effects. The results show that the mice treated for chronic mild stress had a considerably higher preference for sucrose after receiving continuous hypericin for 4 days ( p = 0.0001) compared to the animals administered with normal saline ( p ≤ 0.0001) as well as the naïve group ( p ≤ 0.0001). In conclusion, prepared formulations were found to be stable and can be used as a potential candidate for the treatment of depression.
