Title: Biliary Atresia in Adolescence and Adult Life: Medical, Surgical and Psychological Aspects
Authors: Deirdre Kelly, Marianne Samyn, Kathleen B. Schwarz
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12041594
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967626

Abstract:
Prior to 1955, when Morio Kasai first performed the hepatic portoenterostomy procedure which now bears his name, Biliary atresia (BA) was a uniformly fatal disease. Both the Kasai procedure and liver transplantation have markedly improved the outlook for infants with this condition. Although long-term survival with native liver occurs in the minority, survival rates post liver transplantation are high. Most young people born with BA will now survive into adulthood but their ongoing requirements for health care will necessitate their transition from a family-centred paediatric service to a patient-centred adult service. Despite a rapid growth in transition services over recent years and progress in transitional care, transition from paediatric to adult services is still a risk for poor clinical and psychosocial outcomes and increased health care costs. Adult hepatologists should be aware of the clinical management and complications of biliary atresia and the long-term consequences of liver transplantation in childhood. Survivors of childhood illness require a different approach to that for young adults presenting after 18 years of age with careful consideration of their emotional, social, and sexual health. They need to understand the risks of non-adherence, both for clinic appointments and medication, as well as the implications for graft loss. Developing adequate transitional care for these young people is based on effective collaboration at the paediatric–adult interface and is a major challenge for paediatric and adult providers alike in the 21st century. This entails education for patients and adult physicians in order to familiarise them with the long-term complications, in particular for those surviving with their native liver and the timing of consideration of liver transplantation if required. This article focusses on the outcome for children with biliary atresia who survive into adolescence and adult life with considerations on their current management and prognosis.
