Title: Personalized teleprehabilitation in elective cardiac surgery: a study protocol of the Digital Cardiac Counselling randomized controlled trial
Authors: Bart Scheenstra, Chanu Mohansingh, Bart C Bongers, Sandra Dahmen, Yvonne I M S Wouters, Ton F Lenssen, Phil Geerlings, Henriette F M Knols, Sander M J van Kuijk, Merel L Kimman, Maxime Nieman, Jos G Maessen, Arnoud W J van’t Hof, Sardari Nia Peyman
Year: 2021
Venue: European Heart Journal. Digital Health
DOI: 10.1093/ehjdh/ztab041
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9708005

Abstract:
Abstract Aims Previous research has shown the possibility to use the pre-operative period to improve a patient’s tolerance for surgery. However, there is limited experience with prehabilitation in cardiac surgery. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of a comprehensive personalized teleprehabilitation programme on major adverse cardiac events (MACE) in patients scheduled for elective cardiac surgery. Secondary outcomes are post-operative complications, cardiovascular risk factors, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness. Methods and results In this single-centre randomized controlled trial, patients are eligible for inclusion when they are ≥18 years of age and cardiac surgery is scheduled at least 8 weeks from informed consent. Participants will be randomized to the teleprehabilitation group or the control group. After a digital baseline screening for perioperative risk factors, patients in the intervention arm can pre-operatively be referred to one or more of the prehabilitation modules (functional exercise training, inspiratory muscle training, psychological support, nutritional support, and/or smoking cessation). The programme is targeted at a duration of at least 6 weeks. It is executed by a multidisciplinary team using (video)calls and supported by a custom-made digital platform. During the pre-operative period, the platform is also used to inform patients about their upcoming surgery and for telemonitoring. Conclusion Reducing perioperative risk factors might result in a reduction of MACE, post-operative complications, length of stay, and cardiovascular risk factors, as well as improved quality of life. Cost-effectiveness will be evaluated. Graphical Abstract
