Title: Effective bet-hedging through growth rate dependent stability
Authors: Daan H. de Groot, Age J. Tjalma, Frank J. Bruggeman, Erik van Nimwegen
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2211091120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974493

Abstract:
Significance How is it possible that microbial populations can robustly adapt to an immense variety of environments when their regulatory circuitry is extremely noisy and of limited accuracy? We propose that the remarkable adaptability of microbial populations can be explained by the combined effects of two experimentally observed phenomena: 1) that gene regulation is inherently noisy, causing individual cells to randomly switch between different phenotypic states, and 2) that the slower cells grow, the noisier they become. As a consequence, whenever cells encounter a new environment, they stochastically explore new phenotypes, only to stabilize after reaching a fast-growing phenotype. We propose that this growth rate dependent stability may play an important role in adaption of all microbes. Microbes in the wild face highly variable and unpredictable environments and are naturally selected for their average growth rate across environments. Apart from using sensory regulatory systems to adapt in a targeted manner to changing environments, microbes employ bet-hedging strategies where cells in an isogenic population switch stochastically between alternative phenotypes. Yet, bet-hedging suffers from a fundamental trade-off: Increasing the phenotype-switching rate increases the rate at which maladapted cells explore alternative phenotypes but also increases the rate at which cells switch out of a well-adapted state. Consequently, it is currently believed that bet-hedging strategies are effective only when the number of possible phenotypes is limited and when environments last for sufficiently many generations. However, recent experimental results show that gene expression noise generally decreases with growth rate, suggesting that phenotype-switching rates may systematically decrease with growth rate. Such growth rate dependent stability (GRDS) causes cells to be more explorative when maladapted and more phenotypically stable when well-adapted, and we show that GRDS can almost completely overcome the trade-off that limits bet-hedging, allowing for effective adaptation even when environments are diverse and change rapidly. We further show that even a small decrease in switching rates of faster-growing phenotypes can substantially increase long-term fitness of bet-hedging strategies. Together, our results suggest that stochastic strategies may play an even bigger role for microbial adaptation than hitherto appreciated.
