Title: Resveratrol attenuated high intensity exercise training-induced inflammation and ferroptosis via Nrf2/FTH1/GPX4 pathway in intestine of mice
Authors: Zhe XU, Xiaonan SUN, Bin DING, Ming ZI, Yan MA
Year: 2023
Venue: Turkish Journal of Medical Sciences
DOI: 10.55730/1300-0144.5604
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10387861

Abstract:
Background/aim Moderate exercise has beneficial effects for human health and is helpful for the protection against several diseases. However, high intensity exercise training caused gastrointestinal syndrome. Resveratrol, a plant extract, plays a vital role in protecting various organs. However, whether resveratrol protected mice against high intensity exercise training-induced intestinal damage remains unclear. In this study, our objective was to investigate the protective effects and mechanism of resveratrol in high intensity exercise training-treated mice. Materials and methods Mice were treated with swimming exercise protocol and/or resveratrol (15 mg/kg/day) for 28 consecutive days. Then, the mice were sacrificed, and a series of evaluation indicators, including inflammatory factors and intestinal permeability of the gut, were measured based on this model. The expressions of inflammatory factors (tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α; interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-10), oxidative stress (Nrf2, glutathione (GSH), hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ), catalase (CAT) and malondialdehyde (MDA)), intestinal barrier (gut permeability, ZO-1, Occludin and Claudin-1 as well as ferroptosis (Fe 2+ , Fe 3+ , SLC7A11, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1)) were measured, respectively. Results High intensity exercise training induced colon damage, manifested as inflammation (increased TNF-α, IFN-γ and IL-6 concentrations, and decreased IL-10 concentration), oxidative stress (the increase of H 2 O 2 and MDA concentration, and the reduced CAT and GSH activities), intestinal barrier injury (increased gut permeability and intestinal fatty-acid binding protein concentration, and inhibited ZO-1, Occludin and Claudin-1 expressions) and ferroptosis (the increased of Fe 2+ and Fe 3+ concentrations, and suppressed phosphorylated Nrf2, SLC7A11, GPX4 and FTH1), which was relieved by resveratrol treatment in mice. Conclusion Resveratrol attenuated high intensity exercise training-induced inflammation and ferroptosis through activating Nrf2/FTH1/GPX4 pathway in mouse colon, which providing new ideas for the prevention and treatment of occupational disease in athlete.
