Title: The Prognostic Value of Hematologic Inflammatory Markers in Patients With Acute Coronary Syndrome Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
Authors: Wenjun Fan, Chen Wei, Yixiang Liu, Qiyu Sun, Yanan Tian, Xinchen Wang, Jingyi Liu, Ying Zhang, Lixian Sun
Year: 2022
Venue: Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis
DOI: 10.1177/10760296221146183
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806387

Abstract:
Abstract The aggregate index of systemic inflammation (AISI), systemic inflammation response index (SIRI), and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte*platelet ratio (NLRP) are novel indices that simultaneously reflect the inflammatory and immune status. However, the role of these indices in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) remains unclear. We aimed to elucidate the predictive value of AISI, SIRI, and NLRP in patients with ACS undergoing PCI. A total of 1558 patients with ACS undergoing PCI were consecutively enrolled from January 2016 to December 2018. The AISI, SIRI, NLRP, systemic immune-inflammatory index, derived neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio, and monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio cutoff values for predicting major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were calculated using receiver-operating characteristic curves, and Spearman's test was used to analyze correlations between these indices. Kaplan–Meier curves and Cox regression models were used for survival analyses, and the endpoint was a MACE, which included all-cause mortality and rehospitalization for severe heart failure during the follow-up period. The Kaplan–Meier curves showed that higher AISI, SIRI, and NLRP values were associated with a higher risk of MACE (all P < .001). The association between AISI, SIRI, and NLRP and ACS prognosis was stable in various subgroups according to sex, age, smoking, dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, history of stroke, and heart failure ( P for interaction > .05). Increasing tertiles of AISI, SIRI, and NLRP significantly increased the MACE risk ( P for trend < .05). AISI, SIRI, and NLRP may be suitable laboratory markers for identifying high-risk patients with ACS after PCI.
