Title: AIF-independent parthanatos in the pathogenesis of dry age-related macular degeneration
Authors: Ki-Hong Jang, Yun-Ju Do, Dongwon Son, Eunji Son, Jun-Sub Choi, Eunhee Kim
Year: 2017
Venue: Cell Death & Disease
DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2016.437
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386356

Abstract:
Cell death of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is characterized as an essential late-stage phenomenon of dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The aim of this study was to elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying RPE cell death after exposure to oxidative stress, which occurs often because of the anatomical location of RPE cells. ARPE-19, an established RPE cell line, exhibited necrotic features involving poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) activation in response to hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ). ARPE-19 cells were resistant to H 2 O 2 when PARP-1 was depleted using siRNA or inhibited by a pharmacological inhibitor of PARP-1, olaparib. Our data suggest a causal relationship between PARP-1 activation and ARPE-19 cell death in response to H 2 O 2 . Next, we investigated downstream molecular events in PARP-1 activation. Increased mitochondrial depolarization, mitochondrial fission and alterations of the cellular energy dynamics with reduced NAD+ and ATP were observed in H 2 O 2 -treated ARPE-19 cells. H 2 O 2 -triggered mitochondrial dysfunction was inhibited by olaparib. Nevertheless, translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), a biochemical signature for PARP-1-dependent cell death (parthanatos), was not observed in our study. Moreover, the depletion of AIF did not affect the amplitude of cell death, demonstrating the lack of a role for AIF in the death of ARPE-19 cells in response to H 2 O 2 . This feature distinguishes the type of death observed in this study from canonical parthanatos. Next, we examined the in vivo role of PARP-1 in a dry AMD animal model system. Histological analysis of the outer nuclear layer in the mouse retina revealed protection against sodium iodate (SI) following treatment with olaparib. Moreover, retina fundus and electroretinograms also confirmed such a protective effect in the SI-treated rabbit. Collectively, we report that AIF-independent PARP-1-dependent necrosis constitutes a major mechanism of RPE cell death leading to retinal degeneration in dry AMD.
