Title: Could lysosomal acid lipase enzyme activity be used for clinical follow-up in cryptogenic cirrhosis?
Authors: Engin KÖSE, Elçin ÇAĞATAY, Tutku YARAŞ, Pelin TEKE KISA, Seminay GÜLER, Zümrüt ARSLAN GÜLTEN, Mesut AKARSU, Yavuz OKTAY, Hülya AYAR KAYALI, Nur ARSLAN
Year: 2022
Venue: Turkish Journal of Medical Sciences
DOI: 10.55730/1300-0144.5410
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10387917

Abstract:
Background/aim Cholesterol ester storage disease (CESD) is one of the rare causes that should be kept in mind in the etiology of cirrhosis. Recent studies detected that significantly reduced lysosomal acid lipase deficiency enzyme (LAL) in patients with cryptogenic cirrhosis (CC). Moreover, studies have evaluated that LAL activity is as effective as scoring systems in assessing the severity of cirrhosis. In this study, we aimed to investigate the CESD with LAL level and mutation analysis of LIPA gene in patients diagnosed with CC and to compare LAL activities between patients with CC and healthy volunteers. Materials and methods Laboratory parameters and cirrhosis stage (CHILD and MELD) were recorded for the patient group included in the study. In addition, blood samples were taken from each case included in the study for LAL activity determination and LIPA gene analysis. Results A statistically significant decrease in LAL activity was found in patients diagnosed with CC compared to the healthy group. LIPA gene analysis did not detect CESD in any patient group. Correlation analysis showed a positive correlation between LAL activity and white blood cell and platelet counts in both healthy volunteers and CC patient groups. In the univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis of the parameters associated with the MELD of ≥10 in patients with CC, significant relationship was found between the MELD of ≥10 and the LAL activity. Conclusions In our study, LAL activity was significantly lower in CC patients than in the normal population. LAL activity level appears to be a parameter that can be used to assess the severity of cirrhosis.
