Title: New insights into the occurrence of continuous cropping obstacles in pea ( Pisum sativum L.) from soil bacterial communities, root metabolism and gene transcription
Authors: Lei Ma, Shaoying Ma, Guiping Chen, Xu Lu, Ruonan Wei, Ling Xu, Xiaojie Feng, Xiaoming Yang, Qiang Chai, Xucheng Zhang, Sheng Li
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Plant Biology
DOI: 10.1186/s12870-023-04225-8
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141910

Abstract:
Background Continuous cropping is a significant obstacle to sustainable development in the pea ( Pisum sativum L.) industry, but the underlying mechanisms of this remain unclear. In this study, we used 16 S rDNA sequencing, transcriptomics, and metabolomics to analyze the response mechanism of roots and soil bacteria to continuous cropping and the relationship between soil bacteria and root phenotypes of different pea genotypes (Ding wan 10 and Yun wan 8). Results Continuous cropping inhibited pea growth, with a greater effect on Ding wan 10 than Yun wan 8. Metabolomics showed that the number of differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs) in pea roots increased with the number of continuous cropping, and more metabolic pathways were involved. Transcriptomics revealed that the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) increased with the number of continuous cropping. Continuous cropping altered the expression of genes involved in plant-pathogen interaction, MAPK signal transduction, and lignin synthesis pathways in pea roots, with more DEGs in Ding wan 10 than in Yun wan 8. The up-regulated expression of genes in the ethylene signal transduction pathway was evident in Ding wan 10. Soil bacterial diversity did not change, but the relative abundance of bacteria significantly responded to continuous cropping. Integrative analysis showed that the bacteria with significant relative abundance in the soil were strongly associated with the antioxidant synthesis and linoleic acid metabolism pathway of pea roots under continuous cropping once. Under continuous cropping twice, the bacteria with significant relative abundance changes were strongly associated with cysteine and methionine metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, linoleic acid, and amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. Conclusion Ding wan 10 was more sensitive to continuous cropping than Yun wan 8. Continuous cropping times and pea genotypes determined the differences in root metabolic pathways. There were common metabolic pathways in the two pea genotypes in response to continuous cropping, and the DEGs and DAMs in these metabolic pathways were strongly associated with the bacteria with significant changes in relative abundance in the soil. This study provides new insights into obstacles to continuous cropping in peas. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12870-023-04225-8.
