Title: Challenges of the eighth edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system for pathologists focusing on early stage lung adenocarcinoma
Authors: Yu‐Ting Wang, Il‐Chi Chang, Chih‐Yi Chen, Jiun‐Yi Hsia, Frank Cheau‐Feng Lin, Wan‐Ru Chao, Tuan‐Ying Ke, Ya‐Ting Chen, Chih‐Jung Chen, Min‐Shu Hsieh, Shiu‐Feng Huang
Year: 2023
Venue: Thoracic Cancer
DOI: 10.1111/1759-7714.14785
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968598

Abstract:
Abstract Background The eighth edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system for lung cancer adopts new criteria for tumor size, and for determining pTis, pT1a(mi), and pT1a. The latter is based on the size of stromal invasion. It is quite challenging for lung pathologists. Methods All patients who had undergone surgical resection for pulmonary adenocarcinoma (ADC) at Chung Shan Medical University Hospital between January 2014 and April 2018 were reviewed, and restaged according to the eighth AJCC staging system. The clinical characteristics and survival of patients with tumor stage 0 (pTis), I or II were analyzed. Results In total, 376 patients were analyzed. None of the pTis, pT1a(mi), or pT1a tumors recurred during the follow‐up period up to 5 years, but pT1b, pT1c, pT2a, and pT2b tumors all had a few tumor recurrences ( p < 0.0001). In addition, 95.2%, 100%, and 77.5% of pTis, pT1a(mi), and pT1a tumors, respectively, had tumor sizes ≤1.0 cm by gross examination. All pTis, pT1a(mi), and pT1a tumors exhibited only lepidic, acinar, or papillary patterns histologically. Conclusions This study demonstrated excellent survival for lung ADC patients with pTis, pT1a(mi), and pT1a tumors when completely excised. To reduce the inconsistencies between pathologists, staging lung ADC with tumors of ≤1 cm in size grossly as pTis, pT1a(mi), or pT1a may not be necessary when the tumors exhibit only lepidic, acinar, or papillary histological patterns. A larger cohort study with sufficient follow‐up data is necessary to support this proposal. This study demonstrated excellent survival for lung ADC patients with pTis, pT1a(mi), and pT1a tumors when completely excised. To reduce the inconsistencies between pathologists, staging lung ADC with tumors of ≤1 cm in size grossly as pTis, pT1a(mi), or pT1a may not be necessary when the tumors exhibit only lepidic, acinar, or papillary histological patterns. A larger cohort study with sufficient follow‐up data is necessary to support this proposal.
