Title: Spontaneous rupture of umbilical hernia with evisceration of small bowel in an infant: A case report
Authors: Nuradin Mohamed Nur, Abdulkadir Nor Mohamed, Abdishakur Mohamed abdi, Hüseyin Çayören
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108227
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140782

Abstract:
Introduction Umbilical hernia is a condition that frequently affects children, with the majority resolving spontaneously. The appearance of redness, ulceration, or a sudden increase in the size of the umbilical hernia is indicative of a threatening rupture and suggests the requirement for surgical intervention. We hereby present a case of spontaneous umbilical hernia rupture with bowel evisceration. A presentation of the case a 6-month-old infant was admitted to the hospital due to rupture of the umbilical hernia and intestinal evisceration. Following an assessment, a primary resuscitative approach was applied, including wet dressing of the bowel. A segment of the small bowel loop had a compromised blood supply at the time of the operation, so resection with a hand-sewn anastomosis was performed. No other abnormality was identified intraoperatively, and the abdomen was closed. The baby was discharged after a remarkable recovery. Clinical discussion Umbilical hernia in infants is a common condition and may present with serious complications in less common occurrences, including rupture and intestine evisceration, as in our case. By publishing this case, we hope to raise the awareness of physicians regarding the early detection of such complications and urgent consultation with pediatric surgeons. Conclusion It is important for both the parents and the clinicians to be aware of these red flags and to seek immediate consultation from a pediatric surgeon for timely intervention. This will help to lessen the severity of the complications that could otherwise put the infant at a higher risk for morbidity. Highlights • Umblical hernia rupture with bowel evisceration in infants is an exceptionally rare condition. • Physicians and parents should be informed and become aware of signs of umbilical hernia complication. • Surgical intervention is the mainstay of management in case where umbilical hernia becomes complicated as in our case.
