Title: Multi-objective optimization of multiple droplet impacts on a molten PCM using NSGA-II optimizer and artificial neural network
Authors: Shahin Faghiri, Parham Poureslami, Hadi Partovi Aria, Mohammad Behshad Shafii
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-37712-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10310747

Abstract:
Embracing an interaction between the phase change material (PCM) and the droplets of a heat transfer fluid, the direct contact (DC) method suggests a cutting-edge solution for expediting the phase change rates of PCMs in thermal energy storage (TES) units. In the direct contact TES configuration, when impacting the molten PCM pool, droplets evaporate, provoking the formation of a solidified PCM area ( A ). Then, they reduce the created solid temperature, leading to a minimum temperature value ( T min ). As a novelty, this research intends to maximize A and minimize T min since augmenting A expedites the discharge rate, and by lowering T min , the generated solid is preserved longer, resulting in a higher storage efficacy. To take the influences of interaction between droplets into account, the simultaneous impingement of two ethanol droplets on a molten paraffin wax is surveyed. Impact parameters (Weber number, impact spacing, and the pool temperature) govern the objective functions ( A and T min ). Initially, through high-speed and IR thermal imaging, the experimental values of objective functions are achieved for a wide range of impact parameters. Afterward, exploiting an artificial neural network (ANN), two models are fitted to A and T min , respectively. Subsequently, the models are provided for the NSGA-II algorithm to implement multi-objective optimization (MOO). Eventually, utilizing two different final decision-making (FDM) approaches (LINMAP and TOPSIS), optimized impact parameters are attained from the Pareto front. Regarding the results, the optimum amount of Weber number, impact spacing, and pool temperature accomplished by LINMAP and TOPSIS procedures are 309.44, 2.84 mm, 66.89 °C, and 294.98, 2.78 mm, 66.89 °C, respectively. This is the first investigation delving into the optimization of multiple droplet impacts for TES applications.
