Title: Targeting hyaluronic acid synthase-3 (HAS3) for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma
Authors: Jiaojiao Wang, Andre R. Jordan, Huabin Zhu, Sarrah L. Hasanali, Eric Thomas, Soum D. Lokeshwar, Daley S. Morera, Sung Alexander, Joseph McDaniels, Anuj Sharma, Karina Aguilar, Semih Sarcan, Tianyi Zhu, Mark S. Soloway, Martha K. Terris, Muthusamy Thangaraju, Luis E. Lopez, Vinata B. Lokeshwar
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Cell International
DOI: 10.1186/s12935-022-02818-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801563

Abstract:
Background Hyaluronic acid (HA) promotes cancer metastasis; however, the currently approved treatments do not target HA. Metastatic renal carcinoma (mRCC) is an incurable disease. Sorafenib (SF) is a modestly effective antiangiogenic drug for mRCC. Although only endothelial cells express known SF targets, SF is cytotoxic to RCC cells at concentrations higher than the pharmacological-dose (5-µM). Using patient cohorts, mRCC models, and SF combination with 4-methylumbelliferone (MU), we discovered an SF target in RCC cells and targeted it for treatment. Methods We analyzed HA-synthase (HAS1, HAS2, HAS3) expression in RCC cells and clinical (n = 129), TCGA-KIRC (n = 542), and TCGA-KIRP (n = 291) cohorts. We evaluated the efficacy of SF and SF plus MU combination in RCC cells, HAS3-transfectants, endothelial-RCC co-cultures, and xenografts. Results RCC cells showed increased HAS3 expression. In the clinical and TCGA-KIRC/TCGA-KIRP cohorts, higher HAS3 levels predicted metastasis and shorter survival. At > 10-µM dose, SF inhibited HAS3/HA-synthesis and RCC cell growth. However, at ≤ 5-µM dose SF in combination with MU inhibited HAS3/HA synthesis, growth of RCC cells and endothelial-RCC co-cultures, and induced apoptosis. The combination inhibited motility/invasion and an HA-signaling-related invasive-signature. We previously showed that MU inhibits SF inactivation in RCC cells. While HAS3-knockdown transfectants were sensitive to SF, ectopic-HAS3-expression induced resistance to the combination. In RCC models, the combination inhibited tumor growth and metastasis with little toxicity; however, ectopic-HAS3-expressing tumors were resistant. Conclusion HAS3 is the first known target of SF in RCC cells. In combination with MU (human equivalent-dose, 0.6–1.1-g/day), SF targets HAS3 and effectively abrogates mRCC. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12935-022-02818-1.
