Title: Enzyme-triggered deep tumor penetration of a dual-drug nanomedicine enables an enhanced cancer combination therapy
Authors: Lei Gu, Zhenyu Duan, Xue Li, Xin Li, Yinggang Li, Xiaoling Li, Gang Xu, Peng Gao, Hu Zhang, Zhongwei Gu, Jie Chen, Qiyong Gong, Kui Luo
Year: 2023
Venue: Bioactive Materials
DOI: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2023.02.015
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974368

Abstract:
Cancer cells could be eradicated by promoting generation of excessive intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) via emerging nanomedicines. However, tumor heterogeneity and poor penetration of nanomedicines often lead to diverse levels of ROS production in the tumor site, and ROS at a low level promote tumor cell growth, thus diminishing the therapeutic effect of these nanomedicines. Herein, we construct an amphiphilic and block polymer-dendron conjugate-derived nanomedicine (Lap@pOEGMA-b-p(GFLG-Dendron-Ppa), GFLG-DP/Lap NPs) that incorporates a photosensitizer, Pyropheophorbide a (Ppa), for ROS therapy and Lapatinib (Lap) for molecular targeted therapy. Lap, an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor that plays a role in inhibiting cell growth and proliferation, is hypothesized to synergize with ROS therapy for effectively killing cancer cells. Our results suggest that the enzyme-sensitive polymeric conjugate, pOEGMA-b-p(GFLG-Dendron-Ppa) (GFLG-DP), releases in response to cathepsin B (CTSB) after entering the tumor tissue. Dendritic-Ppa has a strong adsorption capacity to tumor cell membranes, which promotes efficient penetration and long-term retention. Lap can also be efficiently delivered to internal tumor cells to play its role due to the increased vesicle activity. Laser irradiation of Ppa-containing tumor cells results in production of intracellular ROS that is sufficient for inducing cell apoptosis. Meanwhile, Lap efficiently inhibits proliferation of remaining viable cells even in deep tumor regions, thus generating a significant synergistic anti-tumor therapeutic effect. This novel strategy can be extended to the development of efficient membrane lipid-based therapies to effectively combat tumors. Graphical abstract An enzyme-responsive nanomedicine incorporates a dendritic photosensitizer for ROS therapy and Lapatinib for cell growth and proliferation inhibition could increase the vesicle activity and achieve deep tumor co-delivery via the membrane flow, thus generating a significant synergistic anti-tumor therapeutic effect to address the limitations of the ROS therapeutic treatment model. Image 1 Highlights • Novel polymer-dendron photosensitizer conjugate is constructed to delivery Lapatinib. • Dendritic photosensitizer is released by enzyme in tumors to boost vesicle activity. • These two drugs both show deep tumor penetration via the membrane flow. • The dual-drug nanomedicine enables a significant combination therapeutic effect.
