Title: Effect of preoperative anxiety level on postoperative pain, analgesic consumption in patients undergoing laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: an observational cohort study
Authors: Yonca Ozvardar Pekcan, Bahattin Tuncalı, Varlık Erol
Year: 2023
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Anesthesiology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjane.2021.11.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801190

Abstract:
Backgraund This prospective observational cohort study aimed to investigate the relationship between preoperative anxiety levels and postoperative pain and analgesic requirement in patients undergoing laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Methods Forty two female patients with body mass index ≥ 35, who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy for treatment of obesity were included in the study. Spielberger's state and trait anxiety scales were used in this study. Demographic data of the patients, anesthetic and analgesic drugs during the surgery, pain levels measured with verbal analog scale at the postoperative 1 st , 4 th , 12 th , and 24 th hour, sedation levels measured with the Ramsay sedation scale, and the amount of analgesic consumed were recorded. Anesthesiologist, surgeon, and patient were not informed of the anxiety level results. The relationship between preoperative anxiety and postoperative pain and analgesic consumption was evaluated by Spearman's correlation analysis. Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis was applied. Normal Distribution control was performed by applying the Shapiro-Wilk test to residual values ​​obtained from the final model. Results There was no relationship between trait anxiety level and postoperative pain and analgesic consumption. A correlation was found between state anxiety level and pain level up to 24 hours and analgesic consumption ( p < 0.05). According to the obtained model it had been observed that the university graduates consumed more analgesic compared to other education level groups. Conclusion In this study, a relationship was found between preoperative state anxiety level and 24-hour pain scores and analgesic consumption in patients who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy under general anesthesia.
