Title: Laparoscopic Removal of Nonseparated Cavitated Horn in Unicornuate Uterus: Surgical Aspects and Long-Term follow-up
Authors: Massimo Candiani, Nevio Ciappina, Francesco Fedele, Valentino Bergamini, Alessandro Ferdinando Ruffolo, Fabio Parazzini
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Fertility & Sterility
DOI: 10.22074/IJFS.2022.543827.1231
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10009508

Abstract:
Background: In unicornuate uterus cases, when the rudimentary horn is very close to the uterus and is firmly attached, laparoscopic surgery can be very challenging due to the danger of massive bleeding and the possiblity of damaging the healthy hemiuterus. The aim of study is to verify if the laparoscopic resection of the horn site of hematometra, when solidly attached to the unicornuate uterus, is safe and effective. Materials and Methods: This is a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data in a tertiary referral centre. From 2005 to 2021, a total of 19 women were diagnosed with unicornuate uterus with cavitated noncommunicating horn (class II B). We reviewed the original documentations of the patients and created a database. The follow-up results were assessed by questionnaires answered by the patients. In all cases, the chosen treatment was: laparoscopic removal of the rudimentary horn together with the ipsilateral salpinx and reconstruction of the myometrium of the hemiuterus. Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 21.0 was used to perform data analysis. We decided to calculate continuous variables in terms of mean and standard deviation (SD) or as median and interquartile range (IQR), as appropriate. Instead, categorical variables were expressed in terms of percentage. Results: Five patients (12-18 years old) with unicornuate uterus and rudimentary horn with hematometra and broadly connected to the hemiuterus were operated laparoscopically. The surgical procedure was successfull in all cases. No major complications were recorded. Postoperative course was uneventfull. In the follow-up in all cases dysmenorrhea and pelvic pain disappeared. Three patients sought to become pregnant and have children. They had in total 4 pregnancies with 2 abortions in the 1st trimester and two pregnancies with premature births at the 34 th and 36 th weeks. No serious gestational complications were recorded and the pregnancies ended with caesarean sections due to breech presentation. Conclusion: Overall, for the rudimentary horn solidly attached to the unicornuate uterus, the laparoscopic resection of the horn site of hematometra seems to be safe and effective.
