Title: Cabozantinib plus durvalumab in advanced gastroesophageal cancer and other gastrointestinal malignancies: Phase Ib CAMILLA trial results
Authors: Anwaar Saeed, Robin Park, Junqiang Dai, Raed Al-Rajabi, Anup Kasi, Joaquina Baranda, Stephen Williamson, Azhar Saeed, Jacob Ripp, Zachary Collins, Kelly Mulvaney, Molly Shugrue, Jeanette Firth-Braun, Andrew K. Godwin, Rashna Madan, Milind Phadnis, Weijing Sun
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100916
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975105

Abstract:
Summary This is the phase Ib part of the phase I/II CAMILLA trial evaluating cabozantinib plus durvalumab in advanced chemo-refractory proficient mismatch repair or microsatellite stable (pMMR/MSS) gastrointestinal malignancies including gastric/gastroesophageal junction/esophageal (G/GEJ/E) adenocarcinoma, colorectal cancer (CRC), and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thirty-five patients are enrolled. There are no observed dose-limiting toxicities during dose escalation. The overall grade 3/4 treatment-related adverse event rate is 34%. Among evaluable patients (n = 30), the objective response rate (ORR) is 30%, disease control rate (DCR) 83.3%, 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) 36.7%, median PFS 4.5 months, and median overall survival (OS) 8.7 months. Responses are seen in 4 of 17, 3 of 10, and 2 of 3 patients with CRC, G/GEJ/E adenocarcinoma, and HCC, respectively. Participants with a PD-L1 combined positive score (CPS) ≥5 have numerically higher ORR, PFS, and OS. Cabozantinib plus durvalumab demonstrates a tolerable safety profile and potential efficacy in previously treated advanced pMMR/MSS gastrointestinal malignancies. Graphical abstract Highlights • Cabozantinib plus durvalumab has anti-tumor activity and potential synergy • Toxicity is manageable and consistent with prior studies • PD-L1 CPS of 5 or more is predictive of response • Higher CD4 and lower CD68 infiltration correlate with longer progression-free survival Saeed et al. show that cabozantinib plus durvalumab is a safe, active, and potentially synergistic regimen in patients with advanced gastrointestinal malignancies with proficient mismatch repair or microsatellite stable tumors including colorectal cancer, who usually do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors. This regimen is being evaluated in larger, later phase trials.
