Title: A thermal receptor for nonvisual sunlight detection in myriapods
Authors: Zhihao Yao, Licheng Yuan, Xiaoying Chen, Qian Wang, Longhui Chai, Xiancui Lu, Fan Yang, Yunfei Wang, Shilong Yang
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2218948120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974506

Abstract:
Significance Natural photonic structures raise the possibility that robust photothermal conversion exists in some body parts to convert sunlight into heat and facilitate indirect light detection through the sensing of heat. Here, we identify the broad-range thermal receptor 1 (BRTNaC1), a heat-activated ion channel belonging to the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) family, from centipede antennae. At the molecular and physiological levels, a striking photothermal effect in the antennae and a slightly acidic body fluid environment play crucial roles in the heat activation of BRTNaC1. Furthermore, testosterone-induced BRTNaC1 inhibition significantly attenuated the sunlight avoidance behavior. Therefore, our data show a sophisticated mechanism for indirect light detection in myriapods. Organisms from cyanobacteria to humans have evolved a wide array of photoreceptive strategies to detect light. Sunlight avoidance behavior is common in animals without vision or known photosensory genes. While indirect light perception via photothermal conversion is a possible scenario, there is no experimental evidence for this hypothesis. Here, we show a nonvisual and extraocular sunlight detection mechanism by identifying the broad-range thermal receptor 1 (BRTNaC1, temperature range = 33 to 48 °C) in centipede antennae. BRTNaC1, a heat-activated cation-permeable ion channel, is structurally related to members of the epithelial sodium channel family. At the molecular level, heat activation of BRTNaC1 exhibits strong pH dependence controlled by two protonatable sites. Physiologically, temperature-dependent activation of BRTNaC1 upon sunlight exposure comes from a striking photothermal effect on the antennae, where a slightly acidic environment (pH 6.1) of the body fluid leads to the protonation of BRTNaC1 and switches on its high thermal sensitivity. Furthermore, testosterone potently inhibits heat activation of BRTNaC1 and the sunlight avoidance behavior of centipedes. Taken together, our study suggests a sophisticated strategy for nonvisual sunlight detection in myriapods.
