Title: Hepatoprotective standardized EtOH–water extract from the seeds of Fraxinus rhynchophylla Hance
Authors: Sen Guo, Tiantian Guo, Ni Cheng, Qingchao Liu, Yunting Zhang, Lu Bai, Li Zhang, Wei Cao, Chi-Tang Ho, Naisheng Bai
Year: 2017
Venue: Journal of Traditional and Complementary Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcme.2016.05.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5388085

Abstract:
Fraxinus rhynchophylla Hance (Oleaceae), its stem barks are known as Cortex fraxini (秦皮 qín pí) listed in Chinese Pharmacopoeia. Phytochemical study has indicated that methanol extracts from Qinpi has protective effect on acute liver injury. The present study investigates the hepatoprotective activity of EtOH–water extract from the seeds of F. rhynchophylla Hance against carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury in mice. The EtOH–water extract significantly alleviated liver damage as indicated by the decreased levels of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), the malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and increased the levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione (GSH) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and reduced the pathological tissue injury induced by CCl 4 . Quantitative analysis of seven major constituents ( 1–7 ) in EtOH–water extract (EWE) was developed by high performance liquid chromatography-diode-array detector (HPLC-DAD). The current research indicates that the EWE from the seeds of F. rhynchophylla Hance decreased liver index, inhibited the increase of serum aminotransferase induced by CCl 4 , and decreased hepatic MDA content, SOD and GSH-Px activities. These results suggested that the pretreatment with EWE protected mice against CCl 4 -induced liver injuries. Based on the results, the EtOH–water extract from the seeds of F. rhynchophylla Hance is efficacious for prevention and treatment of CCl 4 -induced hepatic injury in mice. Secoiridoid and tyrosol glucosides might be the active ingredients responsible for the biological and pharmacological activities of hepatoprotection. Graphical abstract
