Title: Altered Functional Activity and Functional Connectivity of Seed Regions Based on ALFF Following Acupuncture Treatment in Patients with Stroke Sequelae with Unilateral Limb Numbness
Authors: Jing Peng, Jiaming Su, Lei Song, Qiuyi Lv, Ying Gao, Jingling Chang, Hua Zhang, Yihuai Zou, Xing Chen
Year: 2023
Venue: Neuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment
DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S391616
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890273

Abstract:
Objective Limb numbness is a frequent symptom of post-stroke somatosensory dysfunction, which may be alleviated by non-invasive therapy such as acupuncture. However, the precise mechanism via acupuncture remains unknown. The goal of this study was to investigate how the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and functional connectivity (FC) changed between stroke patients with limb numbness and healthy people, as well as how acupuncture might work. Methods 24 stroke sequelae patients with unilateral limb numbness and 14 matched healthy controls were enrolled in the study. The patients with limb numbness received acupuncture therapy three days a week for four weeks. We mainly assessed the clinical outcomes via the visual analogue scale (VAS). In addition, fMRI data from patients with unilateral limb numbness at baseline and after treatment (4th week) were collected, as well as data from healthy controls at baseline. Results Compared with the healthy subjects, the patient group demonstrated significantly decreased ALFF in several brain regions, mainly associated with the sensorimotor network (SMN) and default mode network (DMN), including left superior frontal gyrus (SFG), right temporal fusiform cortex (TFC), right middle frontal gyrus (MFG), bilateral middle temporal gyrus (MTG), right putamen (PUT), right precentral gyrus (preCG), right planum polare (PP), and left supplementary motor area (SMA). These regions were chosen as the seeds for investigating the FC alteration induced by acupuncture. Several sensorimotor-related brain regions were activated by acupuncture, and the FC of the left supramarginal gyrus (SMG) with right MTG, as well as brain-stem, cerebellum vermis 9 with right MFG showed enhancement following acupuncture in the patient group, which had a significant correlation with clinical outcomes. Conclusion Acupuncture treatment may be used to stimulate brain areas associated with somatosensory processing and to strengthen the FC of sensorimotor and cognitive brain networks in order to achieve therapeutic effect.
