Title: Knowledge, attitude, and practice of childhood myopia among Indian optometrists: A questionnaire-based study
Authors: Ritesh Kumar Chaurasiya, Samir Sutar, Akansha Gupta, Ramji Pandey, Pradeep Agarwal
Year: 2023
Venue: Indian Journal of Ophthalmology
DOI: 10.4103/IJO.IJO_2660_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229990

Abstract:
Purpose: To investigate the knowledge of myopia and its natural history including complications and clinical approaches for management adopted by optometrists across India. Methods: An online survey was distributed to Indian optometrists. A pre-validated questionnaire was adopted from previous literature. Respondents provided information about their demographics (gender, age, practice location, and modality), myopia knowledge, self-reported practice behaviors relating to childhood myopia, the information and evidence base used to guide their practice, and perceived extent of adult caregiver engagement in making management decisions for myopic children. Results: A total of 302 responses were collected from different regions of the country. Most respondents demonstrated knowledge of the association between high myopia and retinal breaks, retinal detachment and primary open-angle glaucoma. Optometrists used a range of techniques to diagnose childhood myopia, with a preference for non-cycloplegic refractive measures. The most common approaches to management were single-vision distance despite most optometrists identifying orthokeratology and low-dose (0.01%) topical atropine as two potentially more effective therapeutic interventions for controlling childhood myopia progression. Almost 90% of respondents considered increasing the time spent outdoors to be beneficial for reducing the rate of myopia progression. The main sources of information used to guide clinical practice were continuing education conferences, seminars, research articles, and workshops. Conclusion: Indian optometrists appear to be aware of emerging evidence and practices, but are not routinely adopting measures. Clinical guidelines, regulatory approval, and sufficient consultation time may be of value for assisting practitioners in making clinical decisions based on the current available research evidence.
