Title: Observational study to predict the efficacy and optimal duration of nivolumab treatment in patients with previously treated advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer
Authors: Yasushi Goto, Kiyotaka Yoh, Terufumi Kato, Yukio Hosomi, Kazuhiro Usui, Tomoya Fukui, Katsuya Hirano, Hiroshi Tanaka, Masataka Taguri, Hideo Kunitoh
Year: 2023
Venue: Japanese Journal of Clinical Oncology
DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyac159
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9885731

Abstract:
Abstract Background Immune checkpoint inhibitors, including nivolumab, are essential agents for treating non-small cell lung cancer. However, predictive markers are currently lacking, especially using factors based on patient-reported outcomes. Methods We conducted a prospective observational study of 244 patients with advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer treated with second- or later-line nivolumab from August 2016 to December 2017. Patient-reported outcomes, including quality of life, were evaluated by the EQ-5D-5L before and during nivolumab treatment. To predict the efficacy of nivolumab during the early treatment phase, we also analyzed the patients’ clinical characteristics, responses and immune-related adverse events at 9 weeks of therapy. The primary endpoint was the disease control rate at 25 weeks after the initiation of nivolumab. Results The objective response and disease control rates at 25 weeks were 18.5 and 41.2%, respectively. The emergence of immune-related adverse events at 9 weeks did not significantly affect the disease control rate at 6 months. The response at 9 weeks and patient-reported quality of life were potentially predictive of disease control at week 25. Disease control on week 9 and patients-reported outcomes were potential predictive factors for the overall survival. Conclusions This study found no new baseline factors predicting the outcome of nivolumab treatment in patients with non-small cell lung cancer, but response to nivolumab was a robust predictor of overall efficacy. In addition, patient-perceived quality of life could predict the durable efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Patient-perceived quality of life could be a predictive factor for the durable efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with non-small cell lung cancer treated with second- or later-line nivolumab.
