Title: Advanced gastric neuroendocrine tumor with hepatic metastasis - A case report
Authors: Lakshmi Deepak Bethineedi, Roger B. Rathna, Jyotimoy Biswas, Arkadeep Dhali, Sukanta Ray, Gopal Krishna Dhali
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108238
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149325

Abstract:
Introduction and importance Gastric neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are rare neoplasms that originate from enterochromaffin cells in the gastric mucosa and pose a diagnostic dilemma due to their non-specific presentation. Case presentation We present a 79-year-old woman, who came with complaints of abdominal pain associated with loss of pain and appetite. Although on the first look multiple differentials could be listed, upon complete evaluation she was diagnosed to have type III Gastric NET. Histopathology and immunohistochemistry allowed diagnostic confirmation of the disease along with strong clinical suspicion. The patient however succumbed to the illness due to advanced disease and lack of established protocol for its management. Clinical discussion The treatment of Gastric NETs primarily involves surgical resection of the tumor and is especially helpful in type I and II cases. For advanced metastatic type III NETs, lines of therapy have not been established although surgical resection can be done if the majority (∼90 %) of the tumor is resectable. Patients should be given a choice in decision making and newer drug therapies should always be considered. Conclusion Since gastric NETs are a rarer cause of abdominal pain, it can often be overlooked in favor of other, more common differentials. One should be aware of this disease and the newer diagnostic methods to have any sort of clinical suspicion when presented with such a scenario. The management of the condition although not been established, novel therapies should be considered if the tumor is not resectable. Highlights • Gastric neuroendocrine tumor is a rare and aggressive malignancy. • It can be difficult to diagnose due to its nonspecific presentation. • It should be considered as a differential diagnosis for patients presenting with vague abdominal symptoms. • Surgery remains the primary treatment option.
