Title: Engineering transplantable human lymphatic and blood capillary networks in a porous scaffold
Authors: Anne M Kong, Shiang Y Lim, Jason A Palmer, Amanda Rixon, Yi-Wen Gerrand, Kiryu K Yap, Wayne A Morrison, Geraldine M Mitchell
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Tissue Engineering
DOI: 10.1177/20417314221140979
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806376

Abstract:
Due to a relative paucity of studies on human lymphatic assembly in vitro and subsequent in vivo transplantation, capillary formation and survival of primary human lymphatic (hLEC) and blood endothelial cells (hBEC) ± primary human vascular smooth muscle cells (hvSMC) were evaluated and compared in vitro and in vivo. hLEC ± hvSMC or hBEC ± hvSMC were seeded in a 3D porous scaffold in vitro, and capillary percent vascular volume (PVV) and vascular density (VD)/mm 2 assessed. Scaffolds were also transplanted into a sub-cutaneous rat wound with morphology/morphometry assessment. Initially hBEC formed a larger vessel network in vitro than hLEC, with interconnected capillaries evident at 2 days. Interconnected lymphatic capillaries were slower (3 days) to assemble. hLEC capillaries demonstrated a significant overall increase in PVV ( p = 0.0083) and VD ( p = 0.0039) in vitro when co-cultured with hvSMC. A similar increase did not occur for hBEC + hvSMC in vitro, but hBEC + hvSMC in vivo significantly increased PVV ( p = 0.0035) and VD ( p = 0.0087). Morphology/morphometry established that hLEC vessels maintained distinct cell markers, and demonstrated significantly increased individual vessel and network size, and longer survival than hBEC capillaries in vivo, and established inosculation with rat lymphatics, with evidence of lymphatic function. The porous polyurethane scaffold provided advantages to capillary network formation due to its large (300–600 μm diameter) interconnected pores, and sufficient stability to ensure successful surgical transplantation in vivo. Given their successful survival and function in vivo within the porous scaffold, in vitro assembled hLEC networks using this method are potentially applicable to clinical scenarios requiring replacement of dysfunctional or absent lymphatic networks.
