Title: Xrn2 substrate mapping identifies torpedo loading sites and extensive premature termination of RNA pol II transcription
Authors: Michael A. Cortazar, Benjamin Erickson, Nova Fong, Sarala J. Pradhan, Evgenia Ntini, David L. Bentley
Year: 2022
Venue: Genes & Development
DOI: 10.1101/gad.350004.122
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9744234

Abstract:
In this study, Cortazar et al. report that exonuclease Xrn2 is recruited to preinitiation complexes and “travels” to 3′ ends of genes, and they propose that processing of all mRNA 3′ ends comprises cleavage and limited 5′–3′ trimming by CPSF73 followed by handoff to Xrn2. Their results suggest that a major fraction of pol II complexes terminates prematurely close to the start site under normal conditions by an Xrn2-mediated torpedo mechanism. The exonuclease torpedo Xrn2 loads onto nascent RNA 5′-PO 4 ends and chases down pol II to promote termination downstream from polyA sites. We report that Xrn2 is recruited to preinitiation complexes and “travels” to 3′ ends of genes. Mapping of 5′-PO 4 ends in nascent RNA identified Xrn2 loading sites stabilized by an active site mutant, Xrn2(D235A). Xrn2 loading sites are approximately two to 20 bases downstream from where CPSF73 cleaves at polyA sites and histone 3′ ends. We propose that processing of all mRNA 3′ ends comprises cleavage and limited 5′–3′ trimming by CPSF73, followed by handoff to Xrn2. A similar handoff occurs at tRNA 3′ ends, where cotranscriptional RNase Z cleavage generates novel Xrn2 substrates. Exonuclease-dead Xrn2 increased transcription in 3′ flanking regions by inhibiting polyA site-dependent termination. Surprisingly, the mutant Xrn2 also rescued transcription in promoter-proximal regions to the same extent as in 3′ flanking regions. eNET-seq revealed Xrn2-mediated degradation of sense and antisense nascent RNA within a few bases of the TSS, where 5′-PO 4 ends may be generated by decapping or endonucleolytic cleavage. These results suggest that a major fraction of pol II complexes terminates prematurely close to the start site under normal conditions by an Xrn2-mediated torpedo mechanism.
