Title: Clinical evaluation of marginal fit of uncemented CAD-CAM monolithic zirconia three-unit restorations in anterior areas, using scannable and conventional polyvinyl siloxane impression materials
Authors: Mohammad Hassan Kalantari, Benika Abbasi, Rashin Giti, Zahra Rastegar, Saeid Tavanafar, Sheila Shahsavari-pour
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Oral Health
DOI: 10.1186/s12903-023-02771-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9885647

Abstract:
Background The accuracy of impression techniques determines the marginal fit of fixed prostheses. Marginal accuracy plays a main role in the success and failure of treatments. This in-vivo study evaluated the marginal fit of anterior three-unit monolithic zirconia fixed partial dentures (FPDs) using conventional and scannable polyvinyl siloxane impression materials. Methods Ten patients were selected to replace the lateral teeth with a three-unit monolithic zirconia bridge. For each patient, in the first group, an impression was made with a two-step putty-wash technique using scannable polyvinyl siloxane material (BONASCAN; DMP, Greece). In the identical session, as the second group, an impression of conventional putty-wash polyvinyl siloxane was taken (BONASIL A + Putty; DMP, Greece). The marginal discrepancy was measured through the replicas, which were cut perpendicularly within the buccolingual and mesiodistal directions. An Independent t-test was employed for data analyses ( P < 0.05). Results The marginal discrepancy in a conventional method for central abutment in mid-buccal, mid-lingual, mid-mesial, and mid-distal was higher than in the scannable method but it was not significant ( P > 0.05). Also, the marginal discrepancy for canine abutment in the conventional method was higher than in the scannable method, but it was not significant, either ( P > 0.05). Conclusions FPDs fabricated from both scannable and conventional impression materials were not superior to each other in marginal fit for both central and canine abutments by evaluation using the replica technique.
