Title: Exploring variation in surgical practice: does surgeon personality influence anastomotic decision-making?
Authors: Carly N Bisset, Eamonn Ferguson, Ewan MacDermid, Sharon L Stein, Nuha Yassin, Nicola Dames, Deborah S Keller, Raymond Oliphant, Simon H Parson, Jennifer Cleland, Susan J Moug
Year: 2022
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac200
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364753

Abstract:
Abstract Background Decision-making under uncertainty may be influenced by an individual’s personality. The primary aim was to explore associations between surgeon personality traits and colorectal anastomotic decision-making. Methods Colorectal surgeons worldwide participated in a two-part online survey. Part 1 evaluated surgeon characteristics using the Big Five Inventory to measure personality (five domains: agreeableness; conscientiousness; extraversion; emotional stability; openness) in response to scenarios presented in Part 2 involving anastomotic decisions (i.e. rejoining the bowel with/without temporary stomas, or permanent diversion with end colostomy). Anastomotic decisions were compared using repeated-measure ANOVA. Mean scores of traits domains were compared with normative data using two-tailed t tests. Results In total, 186 surgeons participated, with 127 surgeons completing both parts of the survey (68.3 per cent). One hundred and thirty-one surgeons were male (70.4 per cent) and 144 were based in Europe (77.4 per cent). Forty-one per cent (77 surgeons) had begun independent practice within the last 5 years. Surgeon personality differed from the general population, with statistically significantly higher levels of emotional stability (3.25 versus 2.97 respectively), lower levels of agreeableness (3.03 versus 3.74), extraversion (2.81 versus 3.38) and openness (3.19 versus 3.67), and similar levels of conscientiousness (3.42 versus 3.40 (all P <0.001)). Female surgeons had significantly lower levels of openness ( P <0.001) than males (3.06 versus 3.25). Personality was associated with anastomotic decision-making in specific scenarios. Conclusion Colorectal surgeons have different personality traits from the general population. Certain traits seem to be associated with anastomotic decision-making but only in specific scenarios. Further exploration of the association of personality, risk-taking, and decision-making in surgery is necessary. This international study has demonstrated that the surgeon’s personality is an independent factor influencing variation in surgical practice. Our findings validate previous work demonstrating that colorectal surgeons possess a different personality trait profile than the general population, with surgeons possessing traits that patients have previously identified as preferable (emotional stability and conscientiousness).
