Title: The Effect of Leaf Litter Cover on Surface Runoff and Soil Erosion in Northern China
Authors: Xiang Li, Jianzhi Niu, Baoyuan Xie
Year: 2014
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107789
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4169466

Abstract:
The role of leaf litter in hydrological processes and soil erosion of forest ecosystems is poorly understood. A field experiment was conducted under simulated rainfall in runoff plots with a slope of 10%. Two common types of litter in North China (from Quercus variabilis , representing broadleaf litter, and Pinus tabulaeformis , representing needle leaf litter), four amounts of litter, and five rainfall intensities were tested. Results revealed that the litter reduced runoff and delayed the beginning of runoff, but significantly reduced soil loss ( p <0.05). Average runoff yield was 29.5% and 31.3% less than bare-soil plot, and for Q. variabilis and P. tabulaeformis , respectively, and average sediment yield was 85.1% and 79.9% lower. Rainfall intensity significantly affected runoff ( R = 0.99, p <0.05), and the efficiency in runoff reduction by litter decreased considerably. Runoff yield and the runoff coefficient increased dramatically by 72.9 and 5.4 times, respectively. The period of time before runoff appeared decreased approximately 96.7% when rainfall intensity increased from 5.7 to 75.6 mm h −1 . Broadleaf and needle leaf litter showed similarly relevant effects on runoff and soil erosion control, since no significant differences ( p ≤0.05) were observed in runoff and sediment variables between two litter-covered plots. In contrast, litter mass was probably not a main factor in determining runoff and sediment because a significant correlation was found only with sediment in Q. variabilis litter plot. Finally, runoff yield was significantly correlated ( p <0.05) with sediment yield. These results suggest that the protective role of leaf litter in runoff and erosion processes was crucial, and both rainfall intensity and litter characteristics had an impact on these processes.
