Title: Perceived barriers to early presentation and symptom-specific time to seek medical advice for possible colorectal cancer symptoms among Palestinians
Authors: Mohamedraed Elshami, Mohammed Ayyad, Fatma Khader Hamdan, Mohammed Alser, Ibrahim Al-Slaibi, Shoruq Ahmed Naji, Balqees Mustafa Mohamad, Wejdan Sudki Isleem, Adela Shurrab, Bashar Yaghi, Yahya Ayyash Qabaja, Mohammad Fuad Dwikat, Raneen Raed Sweity, Remah Tayseer Jneed, Khayria Ali Assaf, Maram Elena Albandak, Mohammed Madhat Hmaid, Iyas Imad Awwad, Belal Khalil Alhabil, Marah Naser Alarda, Amani Saleh Alsattari, Moumen Sameer Aboyousef, Omar Abdallah Aljbour, Rinad AlSharif, Christy Teddy Giacaman, Ali Younis Alnaga, Ranin Mufid Abu Nemer, Nada Mahmoud Almadhoun, Sondos Mahmoud Skaik, Nasser Abu-El-Noor, Bettina Bottcher
Year: 2023
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-34136-5
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140026

Abstract:
This study explored the anticipated time to seek medical advice for possible colorectal cancer (CRC) signs/symptoms and its association with CRC symptom awareness. In addition, it examined perceived barriers that may delay seeking medical advice. Palestinian adults were recruited from hospitals, primary healthcare centers, and public spaces in 11 governorates. A modified, translated-into-Arabic version of the validated Bowel Cancer Awareness Measure was used. The questionnaire comprised three sections: sociodemographics, assessment of CRC symptom awareness and time to seek medical advice, and barriers to early presentation. A total of 4623 participants were included. The proportion that reported seeking immediate medical advice for possible CRC signs/symptoms with blood or mass ranged from 47.1% for ‘blood in stools’ to 59.5% for ‘bleeding from back passage’. Less than half of the participants reported immediate seeking of medical advice for non-specific symptoms (ranging from 5.4% for ‘loss of appetite’ to 42.0% for ‘anemia’) and other gastrointestinal symptoms (ranging from 7.7% for ‘feeling persistently full’ to 35.7% for ‘change in bowel habits’). Good CRC symptom awareness was associated with higher likelihood of seeking medical advice within a week from recognizing a CRC symptom. About 13.0% reported a delay to visit their doctor after recognizing a CRC symptom. The most reported barriers were practical with ‘would try some herbs first’ (50.9%) as the leading barrier. CRC symptoms with blood or mass prompted earlier help seeking. Participants with good CRC awareness were more likely to seek medical advice within a week.
