Title: Effects of nigella sativa oil on allergic rhinitis: an experimental animal study
Authors: Recep Gul, Hasan Deniz Tansuker, Abdurrahman Bugra Cengiz, Melda Gul, Alper Tabaru, Funda Emre, Mehmet Faruk Oktay
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2022.09.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801018

Abstract:
Highlights • Nigella sativa oil has an anti-inflammatory efficacy on allergic rhinitis in animal model • Nigella sativa oil has similar effects with Mometasone furoate on allergic rhinitis in animal model • The frequency of sneezing and nose scratching movements decreased significantly in animals treated with Nigella sativa oil Objectives Nigella sativa oil is known antiallergic and immunomodulatory effects. We aimed to compare this oil with mometasone furoate, a topical steroid, on a rat model in the prevention of allergic rhinitis symptoms. Methods A total of 28 two-to-four-month-old Wistar Hannover rats weighing 250–350 g were randomly divided into four groups of seven, which included control, allergic rhinitis, mometasone furoate, and Nigella sativa oil groups. Loss of cilia, an increase of goblet cells, vascular proliferation, inflammatory cell count, eosinophil infiltration, and the degree of hypertrophy in chondrocytes were assessed by light microscopy. Results The frequency of nasal scratching in the Nigella sativa oil group was found to be significantly lower compared with the allergic rhinitis group ( p < 0.05). Typical inflammatory changes seen in allergic rhinitis were not detected in the Nigella sativa oil group. No inflammation was observed in 85.7% of both the healthy control group and the Nigella sativa oil group. In addition, no inflammation was observed in 71.4% of the mometasone furoate group, and this difference was found to be significant compared with the control group ( p < 0.05). In addition, eosinophil infiltration, cilia loss, chondrocyte hypertrophy, vascular proliferation, and goblet cell increase were found to be significantly decreased in the mometazone furoate and Nigella sativa oil groups compared to the allergic rhinitis group ( p < 0.05). Conclusion According to the findings obtained from this study, we found anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic effects of Nigella sativa oil as equally effective as mometasone furoate in the treatment of experimentaly generated allergic rhinitis. Level of evidence IV.
