Title: Adult upper-limb forearm lymphoma hygroma (cystic lymphangioma): A case report
Authors: Yingkang Zhu, Sufen Li, Lei Zhou, Zunpeng Liu
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108200
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140781

Abstract:
Introduction Lymphoma hygroma (LH) that is the most common type of lymphangioma, but it rarely occurs in the forearm. It may show localized invasive behavior, but is benign. Case presentation A 42-year-old woman presented to our hospital with a growing strip-like mass in the right forearm that had been detected 3 years earlier. Ultrasound examination showed a subcutaneous strip of low back vocal cords on the right forearm. Further magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed irregular strip-like dilated lymphatic vessels characteristic of LH with low T1 signal intensity and high T2 signal intensity. After radical surgical resection, hematoxylin-eosin (H & E) and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of cystic LH endothelial cells labeled with monoclonal antibody D2-40 showed a dilated lymphangioma with no evidence of malignancy. After 7 months of follow-up, no tumor recurrence was seen and the effect was satisfactory. Clinical discussion A combination of previous trauma history, signs and symptoms, and imaging evaluation are necessary to provide clues to LH, but the final diagnosis is likely to be made by pathologic evaluation of the resected specimen. Although there are many treatment modalities, all also have different outcomes. The absence of complete resection resulting in a tumor remnant is the foremost cause of LH recurrence, so we believe that the preferred approach against LH remains complete surgical resection. Conclusions LH is benign and generally asymptomatic lesions with mild bio-behavior. As there are occasional confusing presentations, similar cystic lesions should still be considered with caution for the disease. Although MRI provides superior advantages for its diagnosis, the confirmation of diagnosis still requires histological examination. Radical lesion resection is a very safe and effective option for the treatment of LH. Highlights • In adults, the occurrence of LH in extremities has been very rare, and forearm LH is even much rarer. • Surgical resection was successful to LH, no recurrence was seen at 7 months follow-up • Histopathological features are necessary for the diagnosis of LH. • D2-40 is a specific lymphatic endothelial marker that specifically visualizes lymphatic vessels. • Radical surgical resection is the main curative treatment. Regular postoperative follow-up is required.
