Title: Immunomics analysis of rheumatoid arthritis identified precursor dendritic cells as a key cell subset of treatment resistance
Authors: Saeko Yamada, Yasuo Nagafuchi, Min Wang, Mineto Ota, Hiroaki Hatano, Yusuke Takeshima, Mai Okubo, Satomi Kobayashi, Yusuke Sugimori, Nakano Masahiro, Ryochi Yoshida, Norio Hanata, Yuichi Suwa, Yumi Tsuchida, Yukiko Iwasaki, Shuji Sumitomo, Kanae Kubo, Kenichi Shimane, Keigo Setoguchi, Takanori Azuma, Hiroko Kanda, Hirofumi Shoda, Xuan Zhang, Kazuhiko Yamamoto, Kazuyoshi Ishigaki, Tomohisa Okamura, Keishi Fujio
Year: 2023
Venue: Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases
DOI: 10.1136/ard-2022-223645
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10314026

Abstract:
Objectives Little is known about the immunology underlying variable treatment response in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We performed large-scale transcriptome analyses of peripheral blood immune cell subsets to identify immune cells that predict treatment resistance. Methods We isolated 18 peripheral blood immune cell subsets of 55 patients with RA requiring addition of new treatment and 39 healthy controls, and performed RNA sequencing. Transcriptome changes in RA and treatment effects were systematically characterised. Association between immune cell gene modules and treatment resistance was evaluated. We validated predictive value of identified parameters for treatment resistance using quantitative PCR (qPCR) and mass cytometric analysis cohorts. We also characterised the identified population by synovial single cell RNA-sequencing analysis. Results Immune cells of patients with RA were characterised by enhanced interferon and IL6-JAK-STAT3 signalling that demonstrate partial normalisation after treatment. A gene expression module of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC) reflecting the expansion of dendritic cell precursors (pre-DC) exhibited strongest association with treatment resistance. Type I interferon signalling was negatively correlated to pre-DC gene expression. qPCR and mass cytometric analysis in independent cohorts validated that the pre-DC associated gene expression and the proportion of pre-DC were significantly higher before treatment in treatment-resistant patients. A cluster of synovial DCs showed both features of pre-DC and pro-inflammatory conventional DC2s. Conclusions An increase in pre-DC in peripheral blood predicted RA treatment resistance. Pre-DC could have pathophysiological relevance to RA treatment response.
