Title: Narrative Review of the Epidemiology of Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia and Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia in Gulf Cooperation Council Countries
Authors: Jehad S. Abdalla, May Albarrak, Almunther Alhasawi, Tariq Al-Musawi, Basem M. Alraddadi, Walid Al Wali, Ashraf Elhoufi, Nervana Habashy, Ashraf M. Hassanien, Ayman Kurdi
Year: 2023
Venue: Infectious Diseases and Therapy
DOI: 10.1007/s40121-023-00834-w
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10390449

Abstract:
Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) and ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) are the most common healthcare-associated infections, with rates varying between countries. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) among common HAP/VAP pathogens has been reported, and multidrug resistance (MDR) is of further concern across Middle Eastern countries. This narrative review summarizes the incidence and pathogens associated with HAP/VAP in hospitals across Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. A PubMed literature search was limited to available data on HAP or VAP in patients of any age published within the past 10 years. Reviews, non-English language articles, and studies not reporting HAP/VAP data specific to a GCC country were excluded. Overall, 41 articles, a majority of which focused on VAP, were selected for inclusion after full-text screening. Studies conducted over multiple years showed a general reduction in VAP rates over time, with Gram-negative bacteria the most commonly reported pathogens. Gram-negative isolates reported across GCC countries included Acinetobacter baumannii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Klebsiella pneumoniae . Rates of AMR varied widely among studies, and MDR among A. baumannii , K. pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , P. aeruginosa , and Staphylococcus aureus isolates was commonly reported. In Saudi Arabia, between 2015 and 2019, rates of carbapenem resistance among Gram-negative bacteria were 19–25%; another study (2004–2009) reported antimicrobial resistance rates in Acinetobacter species (60–89%), P. aeruginosa (13–31%), and Klebsiella species (100% ampicillin, 0–13% other antimicrobials). Although limited genotype data were reported, OXA-48 was found in ≥ 68% of patients in Saudi Arabia with carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae infections. Ventilator utilization ratios varied across studies, with rates up to 0.9 reported in patients admitted to adult medical/surgical intensive care units in both Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. VAP remains a burden across GCC countries albeit with decreases in rates over time. Evaluation of prevention and treatment measures and implementation of a surveillance program could be useful for the management of HAP and VAP.
