Title: Exploring Exogenous Indole-3-acetic Acid’s Effect on the Growth and Biochemical Profiles of Synechocystis sp. PAK13 and Chlorella variabilis
Authors: Wael A. Fathy, Hamada AbdElgawad, Amr H. Hashem, Ehab Essawy, Eman Tawfik, Abdulaziz A. Al-Askar, Mohamed S. Abdelhameed, Ola Hammouda, Khaled N. M. Elsayed
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28145501
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10385099

Abstract:
Microalgae have garnered scientific interest for their potential to produce bioactive compounds. However, the large-scale industrial utilization of microalgae faces challenges related to production costs and achieving optimal growth conditions. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the potential role of exogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) application in improving the growth and production of bioactive metabolites in microalgae. To this end, the study employed different concentrations of exogenously administered IAA ranging from 0.36 µM to 5.69 µM to assess its influence on the growth and biochemical composition of Synechocystis and Chlorella . IAA exposure significantly increased IAA levels in both strains. Consequentially, improved biomass accumulation in parallel with increased total pigment content by approximately eleven-fold in both strains was observed. Furthermore, the application of IAA stimulated the accumulation of primary metabolites. Sugar levels were augmented, providing a carbon source that facilitated amino acid and fatty acid biosynthesis. As a result, amino acid levels were enhanced as well, leading to a 1.55-fold increase in total amino acid content in Synechocystis and a 1.42-fold increase in Chlorella . Total fatty acids content increased by 1.92-fold in Synechocystis and by 2.16-fold in Chlorella . Overall, the study demonstrated the effectiveness of exogenously adding IAA as a strategy for enhancing the accumulation of microalgae biomass and biomolecules. These findings contribute to the advancement of microalgae-based technologies, opening new avenues to produce economically important compounds derived from microalgae.
