Title: Time varying dynamics of hallucinations in clinical and non-clinical voice-hearers
Authors: Theresa M. Marschall, Sanne Koops, Sanne G. Brederoo, Joana Cabral, Branislava Ćurčić-Blake, Iris E.C. Sommer
Year: 2023
Venue: NeuroImage : Clinical
DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2023.103351
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9969260

Abstract:
Highlights • Dynamic functional connectivity was assessed on a sub-second level. • Hallucination periods showed more erratic switching behavior than rest periods. • Most characteristics did not differ significantly between clinical and non-clinical voice hearers. • Differences in dwell time suggest dysfunction of the pallidum in the clinical group. Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) are frequently associated with psychotic disorders, yet also occur in non-clinical voice-hearers. AVH in this group are similar to those within clinical voice-hearers in terms of several phenomenological aspects, but non-clinical voice-hearers report to have more control over their AVH and attribute less emotional valence to them. These dissimilarities may stem from differences on the neurobiological level, as it is still under debate whether the mechanisms involved in AVH are the same in clinical and non-clinical voice-hearers. In this study, 21 clinical and 21 non-clinical voice-hearers indicated the onset and offsets of AVH during an fMRI scan. Using a method called leading eigenvector dynamics analysis (LEiDA), we examined time-varying dynamics of functional connectivity involved in AVH with a sub-second temporal resolution. We assessed differences between groups, and between hallucination and rest periods in dwell time, switching frequency, probability of occurrence, and transition probabilities of nine recurrent states of functional connectivity with a permutation ANOVA. Deviations in dwell times, switching frequencies, and switch probabilities in the hallucination period indicated more erratic dynamics during this condition regardless of their clinical status. Post-hoc analyses of the dwell times exhibited the most distinct differences between the rest and hallucination condition for the non-clinical sample, suggesting stronger differences between the two conditions in this group. Overall, these findings suggest that the neurobiological mechanisms involved in AVH are similar in clinical and non-clinical individuals.
