Title: Short-term and long-term effects of noninvasive cardiac radioablation for ventricular tachycardia: A single-center case series
Authors: Won Ick Chang, Ha Hye Jo, Myung-Jin Cha, Ji Hyun Chang, Chang Heon Choi, Hak Jae Kim, Seil Oh, Clifford G. Robinson, Phillip S. Cuculich
Year: 2023
Venue: Heart Rhythm O2
DOI: 10.1016/j.hroo.2022.11.006
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975004

Abstract:
Background Noninvasive cardiac radioablation is reported to be effective and safe for the treatment of ventricular tachycardia (VT). Objective This study aimed to analyze the acute and long-term effects of VT radioablation. Methods Patients with intractable VT or premature ventricular contraction (PVC)–induced cardiomyopathy were included in this study and treated using a single-fraction 25-Gy dose of cardiac radioablation. To quantitatively analyze the acute response after treatment, continuous electrocardiography monitoring was performed from 24 hours before to 48 hours after irradiation and at the 1-month follow-up. Long-term clinical safety and efficacy were assessed 1-year follow-up. Results From 2019 to 2020, 6 patients were treated with radioablation for ischemic VT (n = 3), nonischemic VT (n = 2), or PVC-induced cardiomyopathy (n = 1). In the short-term assessment, the total burden of ventricular beats decreased by 49% within 24 hours after radioablation and further decreased by 70% at 1 month. The VT component decreased earlier and more dramatically than the PVC component (decreased by 91% and 57% at 1 month, respectively). In the long-term assessment, 5 patients showed complete (n = 3) or partial (n = 2) remission of ventricular arrhythmias. One patient showed recurrence at 10 months, which was successfully suppressed with medical treatment. The posttreatment PVC coupling interval was prolonged (+38 ms at 1 month). Ischemic VT burden decreased more markedly than nonischemic VT burden after radioablation. Conclusion In this small case series of 6 patients, without a comparison group, cardiac radioablation appeared to decrease the intractable VT burden. A therapeutic effect was apparent within 1–2 days after treatment but was variable by etiology of cardiomyopathy.
