Title: COVID-19 and Pulmonary Angiogenesis: The Possible Role of Hypoxia and Hyperinflammation in the Overexpression of Proteins Involved in Alveolar Vascular Dysfunction
Authors: Anna Flavia Ribeiro Santos Miggiolaro, Felipe Paes Gomes da Silva, David Batista Wiedmer, Thiago Mateus Godoy, Nicolas Henrique Borges, Giulia Werner Piper, Alessandro G. G. Oricil, Carolline Konzen Klein, Elisa Carolina Hlatchuk, Júlio César H. Dagostini, Mariana Collete, Mayara Pezzini Arantes, Raissa C. D’Amico, Anderson A. Dutra, Marina Luise Viola de Azevedo, Lucia de Noronha
Year: 2023
Venue: Viruses
DOI: 10.3390/v15030706
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10057465

Abstract:
COVID-19 has been considered a vascular disease, and inflammation, intravascular coagulation, and consequent thrombosis may be associated with endothelial dysfunction. These changes, in addition to hypoxia, may be responsible for pathological angiogenesis. This research investigated the impact of COVID-19 on vascular function by analyzing post-mortem lung samples from 24 COVID-19 patients, 10 H1N1pdm09 patients, and 11 controls. We evaluated, through the immunohistochemistry technique, the tissue immunoexpressions of biomarkers involved in endothelial dysfunction, microthrombosis, and angiogenesis (ICAM-1, ANGPT-2, and IL-6, IL-1β, vWF, PAI-1, CTNNB-1, GJA-1, VEGF, VEGFR-1, NF-kB, TNF-α and HIF-1α), along with the histopathological presence of microthrombosis, endothelial activation, and vascular layer hypertrophy. Clinical data from patients were also observed. The results showed that COVID-19 was associated with increased immunoexpression of biomarkers involved in endothelial dysfunction, microthrombosis, and angiogenesis compared to the H1N1 and CONTROL groups. Microthrombosis and vascular layer hypertrophy were found to be more prevalent in COVID-19 patients. This study concluded that immunothrombosis and angiogenesis might play a key role in COVID-19 progression and outcome, particularly in patients who die from the disease.
