Title: Helminth egg derivatives as proregenerative immunotherapies
Authors: David R. Maestas, Liam Chung, Jin Han, Xiaokun Wang, Sven D. Sommerfeld, Sean H. Kelly, Erika Moore, Helen Hieu Nguyen, Joscelyn C. Mejías, Alexis N. Peña, Hong Zhang, Joshua S. T. Hooks, Alexander F. Chin, James I. Andorko, Cynthia A. Berlinicke, Kavita Krishnan, Younghwan Choi, Amy E. Anderson, Ronak Mahatme, Christopher Mejia, Marie Eric, JiWon Woo, Sudipto Ganguly, Donald J. Zack, Liang Zhao, Edward J. Pearce, Franck Housseau, Drew M. Pardoll, Jennifer H. Elisseeff
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2211703120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974432

Abstract:
Significance This work presents a class of regenerative immunotherapies derived from helminth eggs, regenerative soluble egg antigens (rSEAs). rSEA improved wound healing in multiple wound models in part by increasing IL-4-expressing T helper cells and regulatory T cells while decreasing inflammatory IL-17A expression in gamma delta (γδ) T cells. These immunotherapies have the potential to promote wound healing and inhibit fibrosis across multiple tissues and injury types. The immune system is increasingly recognized as an important regulator of tissue repair. We developed a regenerative immunotherapy from the helminth Schistosoma mansoni soluble egg antigen (SEA) to stimulate production of interleukin (IL)-4 and other type 2-associated cytokines without negative infection-related sequelae. The regenerative SEA (rSEA) applied to a murine muscle injury induced accumulation of IL-4-expressing T helper cells, eosinophils, and regulatory T cells and decreased expression of IL-17A in gamma delta (γδ) T cells, resulting in improved repair and decreased fibrosis. Encapsulation and controlled release of rSEA in a hydrogel further enhanced type 2 immunity and larger volumes of tissue repair. The broad regenerative capacity of rSEA was validated in articular joint and corneal injury models. These results introduce a regenerative immunotherapy approach using natural helminth derivatives.
