Title: A quantitative assessment of the frequency and magnitude of heterogeneous treatment effects in studies of the health effects of social policies
Authors: Dakota W. Cintron, Laura M. Gottlieb, Erin Hagan, May Lynn Tan, David Vlahov, M. Maria Glymour, Ellicott C. Matthay
Year: 2023
Venue: SSM - Population Health
DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101352
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975308

Abstract:
Substantial heterogeneity in effects of social policies on health across subgroups may be common, but has not been systematically characterized. Using a sample of 55 contemporary studies on health effects of social policies, we recorded how often heterogeneous treatment effects (HTEs) were assessed, for what subgroups (e.g., male, female), and the subgroup-specific effect estimates expressed as Standardized Mean Differences (SMDs). For each study, outcome, and dimension (e.g., gender), we fit a random-effects meta-analysis. We characterized the magnitude of heterogeneity in policy effects using the standard deviation of the subgroup-specific effect estimates (τ). Among the 44% of studies reporting subgroup-specific estimates, policy effects were generally small (<0.1 SMDs) with mixed impacts on health (67% beneficial) and disparities (50% implied narrowing of disparities). Across study-outcome-dimensions, 54% indicated any heterogeneity in effects, and 20% had τ > 0.1 SMDs. For 26% of study-outcome-dimensions, the magnitude of τ indicated that effects of opposite signs were plausible across subgroups. Heterogeneity was more common in policy effects not specified a priori . Our findings suggest social policies commonly have heterogeneous effects on health of different populations; these HTEs may substantially impact disparities. Studies of social policies and health should routinely evaluate HTEs. Highlights • The extent of heterogeneity in social policy effects across subgroups is not clear. • We examine heterogeneity in policy effects across subgroups using meta-analysis. • Large heterogeneities in policy effects across subgroups are common. • Social policies may likely be benefitting some subgroups while harming others.
