Title: Mitochondrial Dysfunction: A Cellular and Molecular Hub in Pathology of Metabolic Diseases and Infection
Authors: Tapan Behl, Rashita Makkar, Md. Khalid Anwer, Rym Hassani, Gulrana Khuwaja, Asaad Khalid, Syam Mohan, Hassan A. Alhazmi, Monika Sachdeva, Mahesh Rachamalla
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12082882
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141031

Abstract:
Mitochondria are semiautonomous doubly membraned intracellular components of cells. The organelle comprises of an external membrane, followed by coiled structures within the membrane called cristae, which are further surrounded by the matrix spaces followed by the space between the external and internal membrane of the organelle. A typical eukaryotic cell contains thousands of mitochondria within it, which make up 25% of the cytoplasm present in the cell. The organelle acts as a common point for the metabolism of glucose, lipids, and glutamine. Mitochondria chiefly regulate oxidative phosphorylation-mediated aerobic respiration and the TCA cycle and generate energy in the form of ATP to fulfil the cellular energy needs. The organelle possesses a unique supercoiled doubly stranded mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) which encodes several proteins, including rRNA and tRNA crucial for the transport of electrons, oxidative phosphorylation, and initiating genetic repair processors. Defects in the components of mitochondria act as the principal factor for several chronic cellular diseases. The dysfunction of mitochondria can cause a malfunction in the TCA cycle and cause the leakage of the electron respiratory chain, leading to an increase in reactive oxygen species and the signaling of aberrant oncogenic and tumor suppressor proteins, which further alter the pathways involved in metabolism, disrupt redox balance, and induce endurance towards apoptosis and several treatments which play a major role in developing several chronic metabolic conditions. The current review presents the knowledge on the aspects of mitochondrial dysfunction and its role in cancer, diabetes mellitus, infections, and obesity.
