Title: Optimisation of laboratory-rearing parameters for Anopheles funestus larvae and adults
Authors: Lalasoa Niain'ny Felamboahangy, Maria L. Kaiser, Munyaradzi Prince Zengenene, Fredros Okumu, Givemore Munhenga, Lizette L. Koekemoer
Year: 2023
Venue: Acta Tropica
DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2022.106785
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9874306

Abstract:
Highlights • Steps towards optimised laboratory rearing conditions for An. funestus . • Artificial membrane feeding system with defibrinated bovine blood can be an alternative blood meal for laboratory-reared An. funestus colonies. • Larval diet dose is critical to produce the maximum number of adults in a short time. • Failure to control the larval density and water depth for rearing can negatively influence time-to-pupation and pupal production. Anopheles funestus is one of the major malaria vectors in Africa. As with the other main vectors, insecticide resistance in this species threatens existing vector control strategies. Unfortunately, scientific investigations, which could improve understanding of this vector species or lead to the development of new control strategies, are currently limited by difficulties in laboratory rearing of the species. In an attempt to optimise laboratory-rearing conditions for An. funestus, the effect of an artificial blood-feeding system for adults, different larval diet doses, and a range of other rearing conditions on the life history traits of an existing colony were investigated. Firstly, fecundity and fertility in An. funestus adult females fed on either live guinea pigs or bovine blood supplied through an artificial membrane feeding system were assessed. Secondly, a life-table approach was used to assess the impact of larval food dose (mg/larvae), larval density (larvae/cm 2 ), and the depth of water used for larval rearing on life history traits. Fecundity was significantly higher when females were blood-fed on live anaesthetised guinea pigs than when fed on defibrinated bovine blood. However, the fertility of these eggs did not differ significantly between the two feeding methods or blood meal sources. Mosquitoes fed on defibrinated bovine blood using the artificial membrane feeding system showed an increase in egg production when the blood-feeding frequency was increased, but this difference was not statistically significant. The quantity of larval food influenced both time-to-pupation and pupal production. Increasing the larval densities resulted in reduced both time-to-pupation and pupal productivity. An optimal larval density of 0.48 larvae/cm 2 was vital in preventing overcrowding. Increased water depth in the larval trays, was associated with significantly lower pupal production and reduced pupal weight. In conclusion, these results show that An. funestus can be reared using defibrinated bovine blood delivered via an artificial membrane feeding system. The quantity of larval food, optimal larval density, and depth of water used for larval rearing are critical factors influencing colony productivity. These findings can be used to improve current guidelines for rearing An. funestus under insectary conditions.
