Title: Ultrasound-pretreatment combined with Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs enhancing the electrogenerated chemiluminescence of the air-saturated luminol for exosomes detection
Authors: Huixin Zhang, Xin Zhou, Feifei Zhang, Jianfei Xia, Zonghua Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Ultrasonics Sonochemistry
DOI: 10.1016/j.ultsonch.2023.106330
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9969320

Abstract:
Graphical abstract The cavitation effect of high-intensity focused ultrasound could generate the H 2 O 2 and O 2 –• in situ. Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs absorbed and catalyzed H 2 O 2 to produce more O 2 –• . The synergistic effect leads to a great enhancement of the ECL emission for the air-saturated luminol. Highlights • High-intensity focused ultrasound triggered the ECL of the air-saturated luminol. • A novel probe of Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs was synthetized. • The Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs could absorb and catalyze the H 2 O 2 to O 2 –• . • Through combination of ultrasound and probe, the exosomes were detected sensitively. It is still a great challenge to develop effective strategies to improve the low electrogenerated chemiluminescence (ECL) of air-saturated luminol. Herein, the synergistic effects of Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs nano hybrid and high-intensity focused ultrasound pretreatment (ultrasound-pretreatment) were used to significantly improve the ECL emission of the air-saturated luminol, and the mechanism was proposed. The ultrasound-pretreatment as a green method with the cavitation effect could form O 2 –• and H 2 O 2 in situ as an initiator. TiO 2 and Au nanoparticles (AuNPs) were in situ decorated on the Ti 3 C 2 surface to form Ti 3 C 2 -TiO 2 -AuNPs, and it was proved as a highly efficient booster which could catalyze and aggregate H 2 O 2 to the O 2 –• . The utilization rate of intermediates has been greatly improved. Exosomes as model targets can be sensitively detected by the ECL sensor. The detection limit was 195 particles μL −1 . The detection results of exosomes in actual samples are satisfactory. We believe that the ultrasound-pretreatment strategy could be extended to the sensitive detection in the biological sample.
