Title: Copy number variation analysis in 189 Romanian patients with global developmental delay/intellectual disability
Authors: Diana Miclea, Sergiu Osan, Simona Bucerzan, Delia Stefan, Radu Popp, Monica Mager, Maria Puiu, Cristian Zimbru, Adela Chirita-Emandi, Camelia Alkhzouz
Year: 2022
Venue: Italian Journal of Pediatrics
DOI: 10.1186/s13052-022-01397-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801529

Abstract:
Background Developmental delay and intellectual disability represent a common pathology in general population, involving about 3% of the pediatric age population, the genetic etiology being often involved. The aim of this study was to determine the clinically relevant copy number variants in patients diagnosed with global developmental delay/intellectual disability in our population, using the chromosomal microarray analysis. Methods We analyzed 189 patients diagnosed with global developmental delay/intellectual disability, presented in Clinical Emergency Hospital for Children, Cluj-Napoca. The patients were completely clinically investigated, including dysmorphic and internal malformations evaluation, psychiatric, neuropsychological and metabolic evaluation, standard karyotyping. Genomic analysis was done using chromosomal microarray analysis. Results Pathogenic findings (including uniparental disomy) and variants of unknown significance were detected in 53 of 189 patients (28.04%). Pathogenic copy number variants and uniparental disomy were observed in 35 of 189 patients (18.51%). Two patients presented uniparental disomy for chromosome 15, one with clinical phenotype of Prader-Willi syndrome and the other with clinical phenotype with Angelman syndrome. Within the category of pathogenic findings, the recurrent copy number variants were seen in 21 of 35 patients (60%). Conclusions The increased percentage of pathogenic structural variants observed in patients with global developmental delay/intellectual disability analyzed by chromosomal microarray technique supports its use in patients with a non-specific phenotype such as these neurodevelopmental disorders. The high percentage of recurrent pathogenic variants between these findings is a finding that support their initial evaluation when a genetic testing algorithm could be a useful option.
