Title: Predatory Abilities of Two Mediterranean Ants on the Eggs and Larvae of the Codling Moth Cydia pomonella
Authors: Enrico Schifani, Daniele Giannetti, Donato A. Grasso
Year: 2023
Venue: Insects
DOI: 10.3390/insects14020097
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967414

Abstract:
Simple Summary Ants are widespread across terrestrial ecosystems, including agroecosystems, where they take part in several important processes. They often can act as predators of a wide range of insect pests in agricultural fields, which should be considered by management programs, and can sometimes be actively exploited to promote sustainable biological control strategies. In a recent experiment conducted in Europe, pear trees visited by larger numbers of ants suffered fewer attacks to their fruits by the codling moth, a small lepidopteran, which is a significant economic pest worldwide, especially in apple, pear, and walnut orchards. However, the exact form of the interaction between the ants and codling moths remained unclear. While ants were already known to prey upon mature larvae or pupae in the soil, this new evidence suggested they could also control the eggs or newly hatched larvae that had not yet attacked the fruits, which are the two stages whose removal would directly prevent fruit damage. We conducted laboratory experiments to determine whether two common European ants could prey upon these stages. Our results suggest that these ants are effectively able to kill newly hatched larvae, while the eggs do not appear directly vulnerable to predation. Further investigation under field conditions would be needed to assess whether ants may also interfere with the oviposition by adult moths. Abstract The predatory ability of ants (Hymenoptera, Formicidae) against insect pests can offer an important service to agricultural activities and may sometimes be directly exploited in biological control strategies. The codling moth Cydia pomonella (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae) is a major agricultural pest of fruit orchards, whose biological control is complicated by the fact that the larvae spend most of their life protected within the fruits they damage. In a recent experiment in Europe, pear trees in which ant activity was artificially increased by the addition of sugary liquid dispensers (artificial nectaries) suffered less damage caused by the larvae to their fruits. While some ants were already known to prey upon the mature larvae or pupae of C. pomonella in the soil, prevention of fruit damage would require predation upon eggs or newly hatched larvae, which have not yet excavated into the fruits. We verified whether two different Mediterranean ants frequently observed in fruit orchards, Crematogaster scutellaris and Tapinoma magnum , were able to prey upon C. pomonella eggs and larvae in laboratory conditions. Our experiments demonstrated that both species similarly attacked and killed young C. pomonella larvae. On the other hand, the eggs mostly attracted the attention of T. magnum but were never damaged. Further field assessments are required to understand whether ants may also interfere with oviposition by adults or whether larger ant species, although generally rarer in orchards, may also prey upon eggs.
