Title: Brain activity during the preparation and production of spontaneous speech in children with persistent stuttering
Authors: Ho Ming Chow, Emily O. Garnett, Nan Bernstein Ratner, Soo-Eun Chang
Year: 2023
Venue: NeuroImage : Clinical
DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2023.103413
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149502

Abstract:
Highlights • Children who stutter (CWS) and controls performed two continuous speech tasks. • Brain activity while speaking was captured using fMRI and ICA de-noising methods. • Premotor cortex activity reduced during spontaneous speech in CWS versus controls. • Putamen activity was reduced during speech preparation in CWS versus controls. Speech production forms the basis for human verbal communication. Though fluent speech production is effortless and automatic for most people, it is disrupted in speakers who stutter, who experience difficulties especially during spontaneous speech and at utterance onsets. Brain areas comprising the basal ganglia thalamocortical (BGTC) motor loop have been a focus of interest in the context of stuttering, given this circuit’s critical role in initiating and sequencing connected speech. Despite the importance of better understanding the role of the BGTC motor loop in supporting overt, spontaneous speech production, capturing brain activity during speech has been challenging to date, due to fMRI artifacts associated with severe head motions during speech production. Here, using an advanced technique that removes speech-related artifacts from fMRI signals, we examined brain activity occurring immediately before, and during, overt spontaneous speech production in 22 children with persistent stuttering (CWS) and 18 children who do not stutter (controls) in the 5-to-12-year age range. Brain activity during speech production was compared in two conditions: spontaneous speech (i.e., requiring language formulation) and automatic speech (i.e., overlearned word sequences). Compared to controls, CWS exhibited significantly reduced left premotor activation during spontaneous speech production but not during automatic speech. Moreover, CWS showed an age-related reduction in left putamen and thalamus activation during speech preparation. These results provide further evidence that stuttering is associated with functional deficits in the BGTC motor loop, which are exacerbated during spontaneous speech production.
