Title: A Gauss’s law analysis of redox active adsorbates on semiconductor electrodes: The charging and faradaic currents are not independent
Authors: Robert Vasquez, Jacob Waelder, Yifan Liu, Hannah Bartels, Stephen Maldonado
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2202395119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9456767

Abstract:
Significance Several strategies for low-cost solar energy conversion/storage systems are based upon redox-active molecules on semiconductor electrodes. Understanding charge transfer between such molecules and semiconductors is crucial for next-generation energy technologies. However, the immense difficulty in untangling the device physics, electrostatics, and chemical kinetics involved in the current-potential responses of these systems has been a long-standing challenge. In this work, we discovered a method for analyzing such data quantitatively and comprehensively. In doing so, we discovered an aspect of these systems that has been overlooked for more than a half century. Specifically, the act of passing one electron between the semiconductor and an adsorbed molecule can affect the ability to move the next electron to/from another adsorbed molecule. A detailed framework for modeling and interpreting the data in totality from a cyclic voltammetric measurement of adsorbed redox monolayers on semiconductor electrodes has been developed. A three-layer model consisting of the semiconductor space-charge layer, a surface layer, and an electrolyte layer is presented that articulates the interplay between electrostatic, thermodynamic, and kinetic factors in the electrochemistry of a redox adsorbate on a semiconductor. Expressions are derived that describe the charging and faradaic current densities individually, and an algorithm is demonstrated that allows for the calculation of the total current density in a cyclic voltammetry measurement as a function of changes in the physical properties of the system (e.g., surface recombination, dielectric property of the surface layer, and electrolyte concentration). The most profound point from this analysis is that the faradaic and charging current densities can be coupled. That is, the common assumption that these contributions to the total current are always independent is not accurate. Their interrelation can influence the interpretation of the charge-transfer kinetics under certain experimental conditions. More generally, this work not only fills a long-standing knowledge gap in electrochemistry but also aids practitioners advancing energy conversion/storage strategies based on redox adsorbates on semiconductor electrodes.
