Title: Development of Clinically Optimized Sitagliptin and Dapagliflozin Complex Tablets: Pre-Formulation, Formulation, and Human Bioequivalence Studies
Authors: So-Jin Kang, Joo-Eun Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Pharmaceutics
DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15041246
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141516

Abstract:
The purpose of this study is to derive an optimal drug release formulation with human clinical bioequivalence in developing a sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate-dapagliflozin propanediol hydrate fixed-dose combination (FDC) tablet as a treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus. As a treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus, the combined prescription of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors is common. Therefore, this study simplified the number of individual drugs taken and improved drug compliance by developing FDC tablets containing sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate as a DPP-4 inhibitor and dapagliflozin propanediol hydrate as an SGLT-2 inhibitor. To derive the optimal dosage form, we prepared single-layer tablets, double-layer tablets, and dry-coated tablets and evaluated the drug control release ability, tableting manufacturability, quality, and stability. Single-layer tablets caused problems with stability and drug dissolution patterns. When the dissolution test was performed on the dry-coated tablets, a corning effect occurred, and the core tablet did not completely disintegrate. However, in the quality evaluation of the double-layer tablets, the hardness was 12–14 kilopond, the friability was 0.2%, and the disintegration was within 3 min. In addition, the stability test revealed that the double-layer tablet was stable for 9 months under room temperature storage conditions and 6 months under accelerated storage conditions. In the drug release test, only the FDC double-layer tablet showed the optimal drug release pattern that satisfied each drug release rate. In addition, the FDC double-layer tablet showed a high dissolution rate of over 80% in the form of immediate-release tablets within 30 min in a pH 6.8 dissolution solution. In the human clinical trial, we co-administered a single dose of a sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate-dapagliflozin propanediol hydrate FDC double-layered tablet and the reference drug (Forxiga ® , Januvia ® ) in healthy adult volunteers. This study showed clinically equivalent results in the stability and pharmacodynamic characteristics between the two groups.
