Title: Targeted MRM Quantification of Urinary Proteins in Chronic Kidney Disease Caused by Glomerulopathies
Authors: Alexey S. Kononikhin, Alexander G. Brzhozovskiy, Anna E. Bugrova, Natalia V. Chebotareva, Natalia V. Zakharova, Savva Semenov, Anatoliy Vinogradov, Maria I. Indeykina, Sergey Moiseev, Irina M. Larina, Evgeny N. Nikolaev
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083323
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142111

Abstract:
Glomerulopathies with nephrotic syndrome that are resistant to therapy often progress to end-stage chronic kidney disease (CKD) and require timely and accurate diagnosis. Targeted quantitative urine proteome analysis by mass spectrometry (MS) with multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) is a promising tool for early CKD diagnostics that could replace the invasive biopsy procedure. However, there are few studies regarding the development of highly multiplexed MRM assays for urine proteome analysis, and the two MRM assays for urine proteomics described so far demonstrate very low consistency. Thus, the further development of targeted urine proteome assays for CKD is actual task. Herein, a BAK270 MRM assay previously validated for blood plasma protein analysis was adapted for urine-targeted proteomics. Because proteinuria associated with renal impairment is usually associated with an increased diversity of plasma proteins being present in urine, the use of this panel was appropriate. Another advantage of the BAK270 MRM assay is that it includes 35 potential CKD markers described previously. Targeted LC-MRM MS analysis was performed for 69 urine samples from 46 CKD patients and 23 healthy controls, revealing 138 proteins that were found in ≥2/3 of the samples from at least one of the groups. The results obtained confirm 31 previously proposed CKD markers. Combination of MRM analysis with machine learning for data processing was performed. As a result, a highly accurate classifier was developed (AUC = 0.99) that enables distinguishing between mild and severe glomerulopathies based on the assessment of only three urine proteins (GPX3, PLMN, and A1AT or SHBG).
