Title: Clinically relevant fusion oncogenes: detection and practical implications
Authors: Maksim Sorokin, Elizaveta Rabushko, Julian Markovich Rozenberg, Tharaa Mohammad, Aleksander Seryakov, Marina Sekacheva, Anton Buzdin
Year: 2022
Venue: Therapeutic Advances in Medical Oncology
DOI: 10.1177/17588359221144108
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806411

Abstract:
Mechanistically, chimeric genes result from DNA rearrangements and include parts of preexisting normal genes combined at the genomic junction site. Some rearranged genes encode pathological proteins with altered molecular functions. Those which can aberrantly promote carcinogenesis are called fusion oncogenes. Their formation is not a rare event in human cancers, and many of them were documented in numerous study reports and in specific databases. They may have various molecular peculiarities like increased stability of an oncogenic part, self-activation of tyrosine kinase receptor moiety, and altered transcriptional regulation activities. Currently, tens of low molecular mass inhibitors are approved in cancers as the drugs targeting receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) oncogenic fusion proteins, that is, including ALK, ABL, EGFR, FGFR1-3, NTRK1-3, MET, RET, ROS1 moieties. Therein, the presence of the respective RTK fusion in the cancer genome is the diagnostic biomarker for drug prescription. However, identification of such fusion oncogenes is challenging as the breakpoint may arise in multiple sites within the gene, and the exact fusion partner is generally unknown. There is no gold standard method for RTK fusion detection, and many alternative experimental techniques are employed nowadays to solve this issue. Among them, RNA-seq-based methods offer an advantage of unbiased high-throughput analysis of only transcribed RTK fusion genes, and of simultaneous finding both fusion partners in a single RNA-seq read. Here we focus on current knowledge of biology and clinical aspects of RTK fusion genes, related databases, and laboratory detection methods.
