Title: Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns from urinary isolates obtained from cats (2013‐2020)
Authors: Caitlan W. Koontz, Steven E. Epstein, Jodi L. Westropp
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16711
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229343

Abstract:
Abstract Background Bacterial urinary tract infections have been associated with comorbidities and increased antimicrobial resistance over time. Objective To identify bacterial species, antimicrobial susceptibility patterns and risk factors associated with antimicrobial resistance. Animals Three hundred sixty‐three positive urine cultures from 308 cats. Methods Bacterial species and antimicrobial susceptibility data from positive aerobic bacterial urine cultures from cats with growth of ≥10 3 colony forming units per milliliter (cfu/ml) were included. Medical records were reviewed, and bacteriuria was classified as sporadic bacterial cystitis, recurrent bacterial cystitis or subclinical bacteriuria (SBU). Multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate antimicrobial resistance risk factors. Results A total of 444 bacterial isolates from 363 bacteriuric episodes were identified. Escherichia coli (52%) and SBU (59%) were the most common organism and classification, respectively. When compared to other classifications of bacteriuria, Enterococcus spp. were more likely to be isolated from SBU episodes ( P < .001), whereas E. coli was more likely to be isolated from sporadic bacterial cystitis episodes ( P < .001). Recurrent bacterial cystitis was associated with an increased risk of antimicrobial resistance to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (odds ratio [OR], 3.9; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3‐11.3). The percent susceptibilities of all bacterial isolates to commonly prescribed antimicrobials were amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (72%), cefazolin (49%), enrofloxacin (61%), and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (75%). Multidrug resistance was highest for Enterococcus faecium isolates (65%). Conclusions and Clinical Importance No antimicrobial achieved >90% susceptible designation to all bacteria isolated highlighting the importance of performing urine culture and susceptibility testing, particularly for cats with recurrent bacterial cystitis.
