Title: ALK fusion NSCLC oncogenes promote survival and inhibit NK cell responses via SERPINB4 expression
Authors: Tzu-Po Chuang, Wei-Yun Lai, Jonatan L. Gabre, Dan E. Lind, Ganesh Umapathy, Abdulmalik A. Bokhari, Bengt Bergman, Linnea Kristenson, Fredrik B. Thorén, Anh Le, Robert C. Doebele, Jimmy Van den Eynden, Ruth H. Palmer, Bengt Hallberg
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216479120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974509

Abstract:
Significance In this work, we have developed a highly controlled non-tumorigenic human bronchial epithelial cell system expressing four ALK fusions found in NSCLC. Employing RNA-seq and phosphoproteomics, we identify both common and isoform-specific differentially expressed genes and phosphorylated proteins downstream of these four ALK fusions. Further, we show that ALK fusions drive an inflammatory expression signature, resulting in increased Serpin B4 levels that result in inhibition of cytotoxic natural killer cell-induced cell death. Our study identifies a novel cell survival mechanism modulated by Serpin B4 downstream of ALK fusion oncogenes in NSCLC. This finding provides a potential therapeutic axis allowing targeting of the immune response together with ALK TKIs in NSCLC. Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusion variants in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) consist of numerous dimerizing fusion partners. Retrospective investigations suggest that treatment benefit in response to ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) differs dependent on the fusion variant present in the patient tumor. Therefore, understanding the oncogenic signaling networks driven by different ALK fusion variants is important. To do this, we developed controlled inducible cell models expressing either Echinoderm Microtubule Associated Protein Like 4 (EML4)-ALK-V1, EML4-ALK-V3, Kinesin Family Member 5B (KIF5B)-ALK, or TRK-fused gene (TFG)-ALK and investigated their transcriptomic and proteomic responses to ALK activity modulation together with patient-derived ALK-positive NSCLC cell lines. This allowed identification of both common and isoform-specific responses downstream of these four ALK fusions. An inflammatory signature that included upregulation of the Serpin B4 serine protease inhibitor was observed in both ALK fusion inducible and patient-derived cells. We show that Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), Nuclear Factor Kappa B (NF-κB) and Activator protein 1 (AP1) are major transcriptional regulators of SERPINB4 downstream of ALK fusions. Upregulation of SERPINB4 promotes survival and inhibits natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, which has potential for therapeutic impact targeting the immune response together with ALK TKIs in NSCLC.
