Title: Path Tracing vs. Volume Rendering Technique in Post-Surgical Assessment of Bone Flap in Oncologic Head and Neck Reconstructive Surgery: A Preliminary Study
Authors: Nicolò Cardobi, Riccardo Nocini, Gabriele Molteni, Vittorio Favero, Andrea Fior, Daniele Marchioni, Stefania Montemezzi, Mirko D’Onofrio
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Imaging
DOI: 10.3390/jimaging9020024
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967273

Abstract:
This study aims to compare a relatively novel three-dimensional rendering called Path Tracing (PT) to the Volume Rendering technique (VR) in the post-surgical assessment of head and neck oncologic surgery followed by bone flap reconstruction. This retrospective study included 39 oncologic patients who underwent head and neck surgery with free bone flap reconstructions. All exams were acquired using a 64 Multi-Detector CT (MDCT). PT and VR images were created on a dedicated workstation. Five readers, with different expertise in bone flap reconstructive surgery, independently reviewed the images (two radiologists, one head and neck surgeon and two otorhinolaryngologists, respectively). Every observer evaluated the images according to a 5-point Likert scale. The parameters assessed were image quality, anatomical accuracy, bone flap evaluation, and metal artefact. Mean and median values for all the parameters across the observer were calculated. The scores of both reconstruction methods were compared using a Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test. Inter-reader agreement was calculated using Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient. PT was considered significantly superior to VR 3D reconstructions by all readers ( p < 0.05). Inter-reader agreement was moderate to strong across four out of five readers. The agreement was stronger with PT images compared to VR images. In conclusion, PT reconstructions are significantly better than VR ones. Although they did not modify patient outcomes, they may improve the post-surgical evaluation of bone-free flap reconstructions following major head and neck surgery.
