Title: Heavy-ion radiation-induced colitis and colorectal carcinogenesis in Il10 -/ - mice display co-activation of β-catenin and NF-κB signaling
Authors: Shubhankar Suman, Bo-Hyun Moon, Kamal Datta, Bhaskar V. S. Kallakury, Albert J. Fornace
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0279771
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803147

Abstract:
Space radiation-induced gastrointestinal (GI) cancer risk models for future interplanetary astronauts are being developed that primarily rely on quantitative animal model studies to assess radiation-quality effects of heavy-ion space radiation exposure in relation to γ-rays. While current GI-cancer risk estimation efforts are focused on sporadic GI-cancer mouse models, emerging in-vivo data on heavy-ion radiation-induced long-term GI-inflammation are indicative of a higher but undetermined risk of GI-inflammation associated cancers, such as colitis-associated cancer (CAC). Therefore, we aimed to assess radiation quality effects on colonic inflammation, colon cancer incidence, and associated signaling events using an in-vivo CAC model i.e., Il10 -/- mice. Male Il10 -/- mice (8–10 weeks, n = 12/group) were irradiated with either sham, γ-rays or heavy-ions ( 28 Si or 56 Fe), and histopathological assessments for colitis and CAC were conducted at 2.5 months post-exposure. qPCR analysis for inflammation associated gene transcripts ( Ptges and Tgfb1 ), and in-situ staining for markers of cell-proliferation (phospho-histone H3), oncogenesis (active-β-catenin, and cyclin D1), and inflammation (phospho-p65NF-κB, iNOS, and COX2) were performed. Significantly higher colitis and CAC frequency were noted after heavy-ion exposure, relative to γ and control mice. Higher CAC incidence after heavy-ion exposure was associated with greater activation of β-catenin and NF-κB signaling marked by induced expression of common downstream inflammatory (iNOS and COX2) and pro-proliferative (Cyclin D1) targets. In summary, IR-induced colitis and CAC incidence in Il10 -/- mice depends on radiation quality and display co-activation of β-catenin and NF-κB signaling.
