Title: Psychological distress in pulmonary embolism survivors in a pulmonary embolism response team clinic: Protocol for a prospective observational study
Authors: Karen Hurley, Melinda Ryan, Debra Puffenberger, Tamra Parker-Davis, Albatoul Bensitel, Xuefeng Liu, Scott J. Cameron, Leben Tefera
Year: 2023
Venue: Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis
DOI: 10.1016/j.rpth.2023.100045
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975272

Abstract:
Background Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a leading cause of cardiovascular death. Psychological distress in PE is understudied and underrecognized. Objectives The primary aim of this proposed protocol was to describe the incidence of psychological distress symptoms (anxiety, depression, posttraumatic stress, and fear of recurrence) in the survivors of PE after discharge from hospitalization. The secondary aim was to assess the influence of acute disease, etiology, and treatment of PE on psychological distress. Methods This is a prospective observational cohort study in a large tertiary care referral center. The participants are adult patients presenting to the hospital with PE fulfilling objective pulmonary embolism response team (PERT) activation criteria. After discharge, patients complete a series of validated measures of psychological distress (anxiety, depression, posttraumatic stress, and fear of recurrence) and quality of life at follow-ups approximately 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after diagnosis and treatment of their PE. Factors influencing each type of distress are evaluated. Conclusion This protocol aims to identify the unmet needs of patients experiencing psychological distress following PE. It will describe anxiety, depression, fear of recurrence, and posttraumatic symptoms in PE survivors during the first year of outpatient follow-up in a PERT clinic. Essentials • Survivors of pulmonary embolism (PE) often experience unrecognized psychological distress. • To our knowledge, no study has examined the association between PE severity and ensuing psychological distress to date. • We proposed a novel comprehensive clinical evaluation protocol for PE survivors. • Our protocol examines the impact of PE on psychological symptomatology in a quantifiable manner.
