Title: Profiling the metabolome of uterine fluid for early detection of ovarian cancer
Authors: Pan Wang, Jihong Ma, Wenjing Li, Qilong Wang, Yinan Xiao, Yuening Jiang, Xiaoyang Gu, Yu Wu, Suwei Dong, Hongyan Guo, Mo Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101061
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313936

Abstract:
Summary Ovarian cancer (OC) causes high mortality in women because of ineffective biomarkers for early diagnosis. Here, we perform metabolomics analysis on an initial training set of uterine fluid from 96 gynecological patients. A seven-metabolite-marker panel consisting of vanillylmandelic acid, norepinephrine, phenylalanine, beta-alanine, tyrosine, 12-S-hydroxy-5,8,10-heptadecatrienoic acid, and crithmumdiol is established for detecting early-stage OC. The panel is further validated in an independent sample set from 123 patients, discriminating early OC from controls with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.957 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.894–1). Interestingly, we find elevated norepinephrine and decreased vanillylmandelic acid in most OC cells, resulting from excess 4-hydroxyestradiol that antagonizes the catabolism of norepinephrine by catechol- O -methyltransferase. Moreover, exposure to 4-hydroxyestradiol induces cellular DNA damage and genomic instability that could lead to tumorigenesis. Thus, this study not only reveals metabolic features in uterine fluid of gynecological patients but also establishes a noninvasive approach for the early diagnosis of OC. Graphical abstract Highlights • Metabolomic features of different gynecological patients are profiled • A seven-metabolite-marker panel is established for ovarian cancer early detection • Elevated NE and decreased VMA result from excess 4-OHE 2 Wang et al. identify and validate a seven-metabolite-marker panel consisting of vanillylmandelic acid, norepinephrine, phenylalanine, beta-alanine, tyrosine, 12S-HHT, and crithmumdiol that can accurately detect early-stage ovarian cancer using uterine fluid from gynecological patients. These findings establish a valuable noninvasive approach for the early diagnosis of ovarian cancer.
