Title: Effects of a person-centred, nurse-led follow-up programme on adherence to prescribed medication among patients surgically treated for intermittent claudication: randomized clinical trial
Authors: Sara T Haile, Eva Joelsson-Alm, Unn Britt Johansson, Helena Lööf, Ulrika Palmer-Kazen, Peter Gillgren, Anneli Linné
Year: 2022
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac241
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364713

Abstract:
Abstract Background Management of intermittent claudication should include secondary prevention to reduce the risk of cardiocerebrovascular disease. Patient adherence to secondary prevention is a challenge. The aim of this study was to investigate whether a person-centred, nurse-led follow-up programme could improve adherence to medication compared with standard care. Methods A non-blinded RCT was conducted at two vascular surgery centres in Sweden. Patients with intermittent claudication and scheduled for revascularization were randomized to the intervention or control (standard care) follow-up programme. The primary outcome, adherence to prescribed secondary preventive medication, was based on registry data on dispensed medication and self-reported intake of medication. Secondary outcomes were risk factors for cardiocerebrovascular disease according to the Framingham risk score. Results Some 214 patients were randomized and analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. The mean proportion of days covered (PDC) at 1 year for lipid-modifying agents was 79 per cent in the intervention and 82 per cent in the control group, whereas it was 92 versus 91 per cent for antiplatelet and/or anticoagulant agents. The groups did not differ in mean PDC (lipid-modifying P = 0.464; antiplatelets and/or anticoagulants P = 0.700) or in change in adherence over time. Self-reported adherence to prescribed medication was higher than registry-based adherence regardless of allocation or medication group (minimum P < 0.001, maximum P = 0.034). There was no difference in median Framingham risk score at 1 year between the groups. Conclusion Compared with the standard follow-up programme, a person-centred, nurse-led follow-up programme did not improve adherence to secondary preventive medication. Adherence was overestimated when self-reported compared with registry-reported. Management of intermittent claudication should include secondary prevention to reduce the risk of cardiocerebrovascular disease. This RCT aimed to investigate whether a person-centred, nurse-led follow-up programme, compared with standard care, after surgery could increase adherence to lipid-modifying and antiplatelet/anticoagulant agents. The results showed no difference between the intervention and standard follow-up programme on terms of patients’ adherence to secondary preventive medication.
