Title: Cardiac Plin5 interacts with SERCA2 and promotes calcium handling and cardiomyocyte contractility
Authors: Mathieu Cinato, Ismena Mardani, Azra Miljanovic, Christina Drevinge, Marion Laudette, Entela Bollano, Marcus Henricsson, Johan Tolö, Marcos Bauza Thorbrügge, Max Levin, Malin Lindbom, Muhammad Arif, Pal Pacher, Linda Andersson, Charlotta S Olofsson, Jan Borén, Malin C Levin
Year: 2023
Venue: Life Science Alliance
DOI: 10.26508/lsa.202201690
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887753

Abstract:
We show that elevated cardiac Plin5 correlates with up-regulation of cardiac contraction–related processes, unraveling a novel Plin5 interaction with SERCA2 associated with improved calcium handling. The adult heart develops hypertrophy to reduce ventricular wall stress and maintain cardiac function in response to an increased workload. Although pathological hypertrophy generally progresses to heart failure, physiological hypertrophy may be cardioprotective. Cardiac-specific overexpression of the lipid-droplet protein perilipin 5 (Plin5) promotes cardiac hypertrophy, but it is unclear whether this response is beneficial. We analyzed RNA-sequencing data from human left ventricle and showed that cardiac PLIN5 expression correlates with up-regulation of cardiac contraction–related processes. To investigate how elevated cardiac Plin5 levels affect cardiac contractility, we generated mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of Plin5 (MHC- Plin5 mice). These mice displayed increased left ventricular mass and cardiomyocyte size but preserved heart function. Quantitative proteomics identified sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca 2+ ATPase 2 (SERCA2) as a Plin5-interacting protein. In situ proximity ligation assay further confirmed the Plin5/SERCA2 interaction. Live imaging showed increases in intracellular Ca 2+ release during contraction, Ca 2+ removal during relaxation, and SERCA2 function in MHC- Plin5 versus WT cardiomyocytes. These results identify a role of Plin5 in improving cardiac contractility through enhanced Ca 2+ signaling.
