Title: The Effects of Mono- and Bivalent Linear Alkyl Interlayer Spacers on the Photobehavior of Mn(II)-Based Perovskites
Authors: Soumyadipta Rakshit, Alicia Maldonado Medina, Luis Lezama, Boiko Cohen, Abderrazzak Douhal
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Molecular Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/ijms24043280
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967457

Abstract:
Mn(II)-based perovskite materials are being intensively explored for lighting applications; understanding the role of ligands regarding their photobehavior is fundamental for their development. Herein, we report on two Mn (II) bromide perovskites using monovalent (perovskite 1, P1) and bivalent (perovskite 2, P2) alkyl interlayer spacers. The perovskites were characterized with powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), electron spin paramagnetic resonance (EPR), steady-state, and time-resolved emission spectroscopy. The EPR experiments suggest octahedral coordination in P1 and tetrahedral coordination for P2, while the PXRD results demonstrate the presence of a hydrated phase in P2 when exposed to ambient conditions. P1 exhibits an orange-red emission, while P2 shows a green photoluminescence, as a result of the different types of coordination of Mn(II) ions. Furthermore, the P2 photoluminescence quantum yield (26%) is significantly higher than that of P1 (3.6 %), which we explain in terms of different electron-phonon couplings and Mn-Mn interactions. The encapsulation of both perovskites into a PMMA film largely increases their stability against moisture, being more than 1000 h for P2. Upon increasing the temperature, the emission intensity of both perovskites decreases without a significant shift in the emission spectrum, which is explained in terms of an increase in the electron-phonon interactions. The photoluminescence decays fit two components in the microsecond regime—the shortest lifetime for hydrated phases and the longest one for non-hydrated phases. Our findings provide insights into the effects of linear mono- and bivalent organic interlayer spacer cations on the photophysics of these kinds of Mn (II)-based perovskites. The results will help in better designs of Mn(II)-perovskites, to increase their lighting performance.
