Title: A protein of capillary endothelial cells, GPIHBP1, is crucial for plasma triglyceride metabolism
Authors: Stephen G. Young, Wenxin Song, Ye Yang, Gabriel Birrane, Haibo Jiang, Anne P. Beigneux, Michael Ploug, Loren G. Fong
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2211136119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457329

Abstract:
Significance The lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is crucial for delivering dietary lipids to tissues. For years, the mechanism by which LPL (which is secreted by myocytes and adipocytes) reaches its site of action within blood vessels was mysterious. We discovered that GPIHBP1, a protein of capillary endothelial cells, captures LPL within the interstitial spaces and shuttles it to the luminal surface of capillaries. GPIHBP1’s three-fingered LU (Ly6/uPAR) domain binds stably to LPL’s C-terminal domain. An intrinsically disordered acidic domain in GPIHBP1 accelerates the kinetics of LPL binding, stabilizes the conformational integrity of LPL’s N-terminal hydrolase domain (thereby preserving LPL activity), and plays a critical role in the transport of LPL to the capillary lumen. GPIHBP1, a protein of capillary endothelial cells (ECs), is a crucial partner for lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in the lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. GPIHBP1, which contains a three-fingered cysteine-rich LU (Ly6/uPAR) domain and an intrinsically disordered acidic domain (AD), captures LPL from within the interstitial spaces (where it is secreted by parenchymal cells) and shuttles it across ECs to the capillary lumen. Without GPIHBP1, LPL remains stranded within the interstitial spaces, causing severe hypertriglyceridemia (chylomicronemia). Biophysical studies revealed that GPIHBP1 stabilizes LPL structure and preserves LPL activity. That discovery was the key to crystallizing the GPIHBP1–LPL complex. The crystal structure revealed that GPIHBP1’s LU domain binds, largely by hydrophobic contacts, to LPL’s C-terminal lipid-binding domain and that the AD is positioned to project across and interact, by electrostatic forces, with a large basic patch spanning LPL’s lipid-binding and catalytic domains. We uncovered three functions for GPIHBP1’s AD. First, it accelerates the kinetics of LPL binding. Second, it preserves LPL activity by inhibiting unfolding of LPL’s catalytic domain. Third, by sheathing LPL’s basic patch, the AD makes it possible for LPL to move across ECs to the capillary lumen. Without the AD, GPIHBP1-bound LPL is trapped by persistent interactions between LPL and negatively charged heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) on the abluminal surface of ECs. The AD interrupts the HSPG interactions, freeing LPL–GPIHBP1 complexes to move across ECs to the capillary lumen. GPIHBP1 is medically important; GPIHBP1 mutations cause lifelong chylomicronemia, and GPIHBP1 autoantibodies cause some acquired cases of chylomicronemia.
