Title: Dose-escalated Radiotherapy with Simultaneous Integrated Boost for Bone Metastases in Selected Patients with Assumed Favourable Prognosis
Authors: Vlatko Potkrajcic, Arndt-Christian Mueller, Bettina Frey, Cihan Gani, Daniel Zips, Ruediger Hoffmann, Sandra Frantz, Verena Warm, Frank Paulsen, Franziska Eckert
Year: 2022
Venue: Radiology and Oncology
DOI: 10.2478/raon-2022-0053
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9784373

Abstract:
Abstract Background Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) concepts for dose escalation are increasingly used for bone metastases in patients with oligometastatic or oligoprogressive disease. For metastases that are not suitable for SBRT-regimens, a treatment with 30/40 Gy with simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) in 10 fractions represents a possible regimen. The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of this concept and the acute and subacute toxicities. Patients and methods Clinical records for dose-escalated radiotherapy of all consecutive patients treated with this regimen were evaluated retrospectively (24 patients with 28 target volumes for oncologic outcomes and 25 patients with 29 target volumes for treatment feasibility and dose parameters analysis). Analysis of radiotherapy plans included size of target volumes and dosimetric parameter for target volumes and organs at risk (OAR). Acute and subacute toxicities were evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.0. Results The most common localization was the spine (71.4%). The most common histology was prostate cancer (45.8%). Oligometastatic or oligoprogressive disease was the indication for dose-escalated radiotherapy in 19/24 patients (79.2%). Treatment was feasible with all patients completing radiotherapy. Acute toxicity grade 1 was documented in 36.0% of the patients. During follow up, one patient underwent surgery due to bone instability. The 1-year local control and patient-related progression-free survival (PFS) were 90.0 ± 6.7% and 33.3 ± 11.6%, respectively. Conclusions Dose-escalated hypofractionated radiotherapy with simultaneous integrated boost for bone metastases resulted in good local control with limited acute toxicities. Only one patient required surgical intervention. The regimen represents an alternative to SBRT in selected patients.
