Title: Effects of Dexmedetomidine on Immunomodulation and Pain Control in Videolaparoscopic Cholecystectomies: A Randomized, Two-Arm, Double-Blinded, Placebo-Controlled Trial
Authors: Gustavo Nascimento Silva, Virna Guedes Brandão, Marcelo Vaz Perez, Kai-Uwe Lewandrowski, Rossano Kepler Alvim Fiorelli
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Personalized Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jpm13040622
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141731

Abstract:
Aim: Digital and robotic technology applications in laparoscopic surgery have revolutionized routine cholecystectomy. Insufflation of the peritoneal space is vital for its safety but comes at the cost of ischemia-reperfusion-induced intraabdominal organ compromise before the return of physiologic functions. Dexmedetomidine in general anesthesia promotes controlling the response to trauma by altering the neuroinflammatory reflex. This strategy may improve clinical outcomes in the postoperative period by reducing postoperative narcotic use and lowering the risk of subsequent addiction. In this study, the authors aimed to evaluate dexmedetomidine’s therapeutic and immunomodulatory potential on perioperative organ function. Methods: Fifty-two patients were randomized 1:1: group A—sevoflurane and dexmedetomidine (dexmedetomidine infusion [1 µg/kg loading, 0.2–0.5 µg/kg/h maintenance dose]), and group B—sevoflurane with saline 0.9% infusion as a placebo control. Three blood samples were collected: preoperatively (T0 h), 4–6 h after surgery (T4–6 h), and 24 h postoperatively (T24 h). The primary outcome was the level analysis of inflammatory and endocrine mediators. Secondary outcome measures were the time to return to normal preoperative hemodynamic parameters, spontaneous ventilation, and postoperative narcotic requirements to control surgical pain. Results: A reduction of Interleukin 6 was found at 4–6 h after surgery in group A with a mean of 54.76 (27.15–82.37; CI 95%) vs. 97.43 (53.63–141.22); p = 0.0425) in group B patients. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were lower in group A patients, who also had a statistically significantly lower opioid consumption in the first postoperative hour when compared to group B patients ( p < 0.0001). We noticed a similar return to spontaneous ventilation pattern in both groups. Conclusions: Dexmedetomidine decreased interleukin-6 4–6 h after surgery, likely by providing a sympatholytic effect. It provides good perioperative analgesia without respiratory depression. Implementing dexmedetomidine during laparoscopic cholecystectomy has a good safety profile and may lower healthcare expenditure due to faster postoperative recovery.
