Title: Colonoscopic and Clinical Features of Colonic Angiodysplasia: A Study in 54 Patients
Authors: Chenchen Zhang, Yanan Wang, Dongdong Zhang, Shuai Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Surgical Laparoscopy, Endoscopy & Percutaneous Techniques
DOI: 10.1097/SLE.0000000000001159
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10065816

Abstract:
Objectives: Colonic angiodysplasia is a rare disease, it is nevertheless a common cause of lower gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in older adults. The study summarized the colonoscopic and clinical features of colonic angiodysplasia to raise awareness among endoscopists regarding this disease. Materials and Methods: We performed a retrospective study of enrolled patients diagnosed with colonic angiodysplasia between September 2013 and April 2022. Clinical and colonoscopic features of the patients with active bleeding were analyzed and compared with those of patients without bleeding. The comparisons were also conducted between the patients with active lower GI bleeding caused by colonic angiodysplasia and those by other diseases. Results: In total, 54 eligible patients were included in this study; 55.55% of the participants were aged over 60 years. Ten patients (3 men and 7 women) with colonic angiodysplasia suffered from active lower GI bleeding, which was mainly located in the left and total colon. The patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, radiotherapy history, antiplatelet drug use, and multiple lesions were more likely to endure lower GI bleeding. The duration between bleeding and admission was longer in the colonic angiodysplasia group than in the other diseases group ( P = 0.043). In the colonic angiodysplasia group, bleeding relapsed in 3 patients, and the recurrence rate was higher than in the other diseases group ( P < 0.001). Conclusion: Endoscopists should perform colonoscopy scrupulously and consider colonic angiodysplasia as a differential diagnosis in patients with lower GI bleeding, especially for older women and adults with chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus.
