Title: A Multi-Center Evaluation of Restorative Eye Treatment and INhance With Trihex Technology to Improve Aesthetic Outcomes When Used Pre- and Post-Blepharoplasty
Authors: Wendy W Lee, Steven Fagien, Jennifer Murdock, Michaela Bell, Alan D Widgerow
Year: 2023
Venue: Aesthetic Surgery Journal. Open Forum
DOI: 10.1093/asjof/ojac089
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9879749

Abstract:
Abstract Background Restorative Eye Treatment with TriHex Technology (RET) is a topical eye product with peptides and botanicals that reduce the appearance of crow's feet, under-eye bags, and dark circles. INhance with TriHex Technology (IH) is a topical product that has been clinically proven to accelerate the clearance of bruises and aid in the reduction of swelling. TriHex Technology has been shown to regenerate collagen and elastin. Objectives Evaluate the use of RET compared to a bland moisturizer prior to blepharoplasty and the bilateral use of INhance postoperatively. Methods Blepharoplasty patients were randomized to use either RET or a bland moisturizer, twice daily, on the designated periocular skin for 4 weeks prior to the procedure. Postoperatively, participants applied IH bilaterally, at least 4 times a day, and returned for follow-up on Days 1 or 3, 7, and 14. The removed upper-eyelid skin (13 patients) underwent independent dermatopathological evaluation. Results Investigators noted no differences in peri-operative complications but observed faster improvement in swelling, bruising, discomfort on the treated side. 85% of participants had less edema and bruising on the RET pretreated side. Biopsy results revealed improved extracellular matrix appearance on the RET pretreated side. Participants agreed that IH alleviated their swelling and noted that their skin felt and appeared more hydrated. Conclusions A regimen designed for eyelid surgery employing a pretreatment product component and a post treatment product appear to have a positive impact on measured outcomes in blepharoplasty patients including effects on bruising, swelling and patient comfort. Level of Evidence: 4
