Title: Cerebrovascular response to an acute bout of low-volume high-intensity interval exercise and recovery in young healthy adults
Authors: Alicen A. Whitaker, Stacey E. Aaron, Carolyn S. Kaufman, Brady K. Kurtz, Stephen X. Bai, Eric D. Vidoni, Robert N. Montgomery, Sandra A. Billinger
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Applied Physiology
DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00484.2021
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8759972

Abstract:
High-intensity interval exercise (HIIT) is performed widely. However, there is a gap in knowledge regarding the acute cerebrovascular response to low-volume HIIT. Our objective was to characterize the middle cerebral artery blood velocity (MCAv) response during an acute bout of low-volume HIIT in young healthy adults. We hypothesized that MCAv would decrease below the baseline (BL), 1 ) during HIIT, 2 ) immediately following HIIT, and 3 ) 30 min after HIIT. As a secondary objective, we investigated sex differences in the MCAv response during HIIT. Twenty-four young healthy adults completed HIIT [12 males, age = 25 (SD = 2)]. HIIT included 10 min of 1-min high intensity (∼70% estimated maximal Watts) and active recovery (10% estimated maximal Watts) intervals on a recumbent stepper. MCAv, mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and end-tidal carbon dioxide ( P E T C O 2 ) were recorded at BL, during HIIT, immediately following HIIT, and 30 min after HIIT. Contrary to our hypothesis, MCAv remained above BL during HIIT. MCAv peaked at minute 3 then decreased concomitantly with P E T C O 2 . MCAv was lower than BL immediately following HIIT ( P < 0.001). Thirty minutes after HIIT, MCAv returned to BL ( P = 0.47). Compared with men, women had a higher MCAv at BL ( P = 0.001), during HIIT ( P = 0.009), immediately following HIIT ( P = 0.004), and 30 min after HIIT ( P = 0.001). MCAv did not decrease below BL during low-volume HIIT. However, MCAv decreased below BL immediately following HIIT and returned to resting values 30 min after HIIT. MCAv also differed between sexes. NEW & NOTEWORTHY We are the first, to our knowledge, to characterize the cerebrovascular and hemodynamic response to low-volume high-intensity interval exercise (HIIT, 1-min intervals) in young healthy adults. Middle cerebral artery blood velocity (MCAv) decreased during the HIIT bout and rebounded during active recovery. Women demonstrated a significantly higher resting MCAv than men and the difference remained during HIIT. Here, we report a novel protocol and characterized the MCAv response during an acute bout of low-volume HIIT.
