Title: Naturally occurring osteochondrosis latens lesions identified by quantitative and morphological 10.5 T MRI in pigs
Authors: Alexandra R. Armstrong, Štefan Zbýň, Abdul Wahed Kajabi, Gregory J. Metzger, Jutta M. Ellermann, Cathy S. Carlson, Ferenc Tóth
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of orthopaedic research : official publication of the Orthopaedic Research Society
DOI: 10.1002/jor.25401
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9759621

Abstract:
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans (JOCD) is a pediatric orthopedic disorder that involves the articular–epiphyseal cartilage complex and underlying bone. Clinical disease is often characterized by the presence of radiographically apparent osteochondral flaps and fragments. The existence of early JOCD lesions (osteochondrosis latens [OCL] and osteochondrosis manifesta [OCM]) that precede the development of osteochondral flaps and fragments is also well recognized. However, identification of naturally occurring OCL lesions (confined to cartilage) using noninvasive imaging techniques has not yet been accomplished. We hypothesized that 10.5 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can identify naturally occurring OCL lesions at predilection sites in intact joints of juvenile pigs. Unilateral elbows and knees (stifles) were harvested from three pigs aged 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and scanned in a 10.5 T MRI to obtain morphological 3D DESS images, and quantitative T2 and T1ρ relaxation time maps. Areas with increased T2 and T1ρ relaxation times in the articular–epiphyseal cartilage complex were identified in 1/3 distal femora and 3/3 distal humeri and were considered suspicious for OCL or OCM lesions. Histological assessment confirmed the presence of OCL or OCM lesions at each of these sites and failed to identify additional lesions. Histological findings included necrotic vascular profiles associated with areas of chondronecrosis either confined to the epiphyseal cartilage (OCL, 4- and 8-week-old specimens) or resulting in a delay in endochondral ossification (OCM, 12-week-old specimen). Future studies with clinical MR systems (≤7 T) are needed to determine whether these MRI methods are suitable for the in vivo diagnosis of early JOCD lesions in humans.
