Title: Age-dependent differences of the depth of olfactory fossa in children
Authors: Mehmet Güven, Halil Elden, Atılay Yaylacı, Ebru Mihriban Güven, Ahmet Kara, Ayla Tekin Orha
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2021.09.006
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801024

Abstract:
Highlights • The shape of the anterior skull base changes with age and is directly linked to the development of the paranasal sinuses. • Considering children under the age of 6, questions arise about the validity of Keros classification. • The high Keros I ratio and the low Keros III ratio in children aged 1–6 and the high rate of Keros III in the 12–18 age group were remarkable findings. Objective With this radio-anatomical study, we aimed to describe the distribution of the depth of the olfactory fossa based on the Keros classification in the pediatric population in our region and to reduce complication rates by providing normative data. Methods This was a retrospective study conducted with computed tomography imaging of the paranasal sinuses of 390 pediatric patients referred over a six-year period in Sakarya and Kocaeli University Faculty of Medicine. Patients were divided into 3 groups as 1–6, 6–12, and 12–18 years old. The depth of the olfactory fossa was measured and classified according to the Keros classification. The incidence of Keros asymmetries was also investigated. Results The distribution of the depth of a total of 780 olfactory fossa according to the Keros classification was 24.7% Keros I, 65.9% Keros II, and 9.4% Keros III. When the groups were evaluated with each other and within each group, it was seen that the prevalence of Keros I type was significantly higher in the first group ( p < 0.05), and the prevalence of Keros type II was significantly higher in the second and third groups ( p < 0.05). Apart from this, the number of Keros type III increased in the third group compared to the first two groups and showed a statistically significant difference ( p < 0.05). Among all patients, asymmetry of the olfactory fossa was detected in 29 patients (7.4%). Although the number of olfactory fossa asymmetry was low in group I, it was not significantly different between the groups ( p > 0.05). Conclusion In our study, high Keros I rate and low Keros III rate in children aged 1–6 were remarkable. Especially for children under the age of six, questions arise about the validity of the Keros classification. More detailed studies in larger populations, in different ethnicities, and with various age groups are needed. Level of evidence Level 3.
