Title: Distinct multivariate structural brain profiles are related to variations in short- and long-delay memory consolidation across children and young adults
Authors: Iryna Schommartz, Philip F. Lembcke, Francesco Pupillo, Henriette Schuetz, Nina Wald de Chamorro, Martin Bauer, Angela M. Kaindl, Claudia Buss, Yee Lee Shing
Year: 2023
Venue: Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience
DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2022.101192
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803921

Abstract:
From early to middle childhood, brain regions that underlie memory consolidation undergo profound maturational changes. However, there is little empirical investigation that directly relates age-related differences in brain structural measures to memory consolidation processes. The present study examined memory consolidation of intentionally studied object-location associations after one night of sleep (short delay) and after two weeks (long delay) in normally developing 5-to-7-year-old children (n = 50) and young adults (n = 39). Behavioural differences in memory retention rate were related to structural brain measures. Our results showed that children, in comparison to young adults, retained correctly learnt object-location associations less robustly over short and long delay. Moreover, using partial least squares correlation method, a unique multivariate profile comprised of specific neocortical (prefrontal, parietal, and occipital), cerebellar, and hippocampal head and subfield structures in the body was found to be associated with variation in short-delay memory retention. A different multivariate profile comprised of a reduced set of brain structures, mainly consisting of neocortical (prefrontal, parietal, and occipital), hippocampal head, and selective hippocampal subfield structures (CA1–2 and subiculum) was associated with variation in long-delay memory retention. Taken together, the results suggest that multivariate structural pattern of unique sets of brain regions are related to variations in short- and long-delay memory consolidation across children and young adults. Graphical Abstract ga1 Highlights • Short- and long-delay memory consolidation is less robust in children than in young adults. • Short-delay brain profile comprised of hippocampal, cerebellar, and neocortical brain regions. • Long-delay brain profile comprised of neocortical and selected hippocampal brain regions. • Brain profiles differ between children and young adults.
