Title: Pre-pandemic resilience to trauma and mental health outcomes during COVID-19
Authors: Karmel W. Choi, Kristen Nishimi, Shaili C. Jha, Laura Sampson, Jill Hahn, Jae H. Kang, Karestan C. Koenen, Laura D. Kubzansky
Year: 2022
Venue: Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology
DOI: 10.1007/s00127-022-02367-y
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9514982

Abstract:
Purpose The stress-sensitization hypothesis posits that individuals with prior trauma are at elevated risk for poor mental health when faced with subsequent stressors. Little work has examined whether those who have demonstrated psychological resilience to prior trauma would show either increased resilience or vulnerability to subsequent stressors. We examined pre-pandemic psychological resilience to lifetime trauma in relation to mental health outcomes amid the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, a major societal stressor. Methods The sample included 16,900 trauma-exposed women from the Nurses’ Health Study II. Pre-pandemic resilience was defined by psychological health in 2017–2019 (characterized by levels of both distress and positive emotional well-being) relative to lifetime trauma. Resilience was defined categorically by cross-classifying unfavorable, adequate, and favorable psychological health by higher versus lower trauma burden, and continuously as the residual difference in predicted versus actual psychological health regressed on trauma burden. Mental health outcomes as of May–August 2020 included psychological distress symptoms and overall positive emotional well-being. Associations were assessed using covariate-adjusted regression models. Results Pre-pandemic resilience was associated with lower distress and higher well-being early in the COVID-19 pandemic. Relative to the women showing highest resilience (favorable psychological health despite higher trauma), only those with lower trauma and favorable prior psychological health had significantly lower distress and higher positive emotional well-being during the pandemic. Higher continuous pre-pandemic resilience was also significantly associated with lower distress and higher positive emotional well-being during the pandemic. Conclusion Preventing mental health problems following trauma may contribute to protecting population well-being amid major stressors. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00127-022-02367-y.
