Title: Development and validation of an fMRI-informed EEG model of reward-related ventral striatum activation
Authors: Neomi Singer, Gilad Poker, Netta Dunsky-Moran, Shlomi Nemni, Shira Reznik Balter, Maayan Doron, Travis Baker, Alain Dagher, Robert J Zatorre, Talma Hendler
Year: 2023
Venue: Neuroimage
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2023.120183
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10300238

Abstract:
Highlights • Combined EEG-fMRI was used to derive fMRI-inspired EEG model of ventral striatum. • To model reward activity, EEG-fMRI data amassed during pleasurable music listening. • The resulting model (termed VS-EFP) predicted VS BOLD activity in a validation sample. • We provide evidence for the specificity and functional validity of the VS-EFP model. • VS-EFP may allow scalable probing of VS reward-related activation for diverse needs. Reward processing is essential for our mental-health and well-being. In the current study, we developed and validated a scalable, fMRI-informed EEG model for monitoring reward processing related to activation in the ventral-striatum (VS), a significant node in the brain's reward system. To develop this EEG-based model of VS-related activation, we collected simultaneous EEG/fMRI data from 17 healthy individuals while listening to individually-tailored pleasurable music – a highly rewarding stimulus known to engage the VS. Using these cross-modal data, we constructed a generic regression model for predicting the concurrently acquired Blood-Oxygen-Level-Dependent (BOLD) signal from the VS using spectro-temporal features from the EEG signal (termed hereby VS-related-Electrical Finger Print; VS-EFP). The performance of the extracted model was examined using a series of tests that were applied on the original dataset and, importantly, an external validation dataset collected from a different group of 14 healthy individuals who underwent the same EEG/FMRI procedure. Our results showed that the VS-EFP model, as measured by simultaneous EEG, predicted BOLD activation in the VS and additional functionally relevant regions to a greater extent than an EFP model derived from a different anatomical region. The developed VS-EFP was also modulated by musical pleasure and predictive of the VS-BOLD during a monetary reward task, further indicating its functional relevance. These findings provide compelling evidence for the feasibility of using EEG alone to model neural activation related to the VS, paving the way for future use of this scalable neural probing approach in neural monitoring and self-guided neuromodulation.
