Title: Technique-Dependent Relationship between Local Ski Bending Curvature, Roll Angle and Radial Force in Alpine Skiing
Authors: Christoph Thorwartl, Andreas Tschepp, Michael Lasshofer, Helmut Holzer, Martin Zirkl, Matthias Hammer, Barbara Stadlober, Thomas Stöggl
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23083997
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141132

Abstract:
Skiing technique, and performance are impacted by the interplay between ski and snow. The resulting deformation characteristics of the ski, both temporally and segmentally, are indicative of the unique multi-faceted nature of this process. Recently, a PyzoFlex ® ski prototype was presented for measuring the local ski curvature ( w ″ ), demonstrating high reliability and validity. The value of w ″ increases as a result of enlargement of the roll angle ( R A ) and the radial force ( R F ) and consequently minimizes the radius of the turn, preventing skidding. This study aims to analyze segmental w ″ differences along the ski, as well as to investigate the relationship among segmental w ″ , R A , and R F for both the inner and outer skis and for different skiing techniques (carving and parallel ski steering). A skier performed 24 carving and 24 parallel ski steering turns, during which a sensor insole was placed in the boot to determine R A and R F , and six PyzoFlex ® sensors were used to measure the w ″ progression along the left ski ( w 1 − 6 ″ ). All data were time normalized over a left-right turn combination. Correlation analysis using Pearson’s correlation coefficient ( r ) was conducted on the mean values of R A , R F , and segmental w 1 − 6 ″ for different turn phases [initiation, center of mass direction change I (COM DC I), center of mass direction change II (COM DC II), completion]. The results of the study indicate that, regardless of the skiing technique, the correlation between the two rear sensors ( L 2 vs. L 3 ) and the three front sensors ( L 4 vs. L 5 , L 4 vs. L 6 , L 5 vs. L 6 ) was mostly high ( r > 0.50) to very high ( r > 0.70). During carving turns, the correlation between w ″ of the rear ( w 1 − 3 ″ ) and that of front sensors ( w 4 − 6 ″ ) of the outer ski was low (ranging between −0.21 and 0.22) with the exception of high correlations during COM DC II ( r = 0.51–0.54). In contrast, for parallel ski steering, the r between the w ″ of the front and rear sensors was mostly high to very high, especially for COM DC I and II ( r = 0.48–0.85). Further, a high to very high correlation ( r ranging between 0.55 and 0.83) among R F , R A , and w ″ of the two sensors located behind the binding ( w 2 ″ , w 3 ″ ) in COM DC I and II for the outer ski during carving was found. However, the values of r were low to moderate ( r = 0.04–0.47) during parallel ski steering. It can be concluded that homogeneous ski deflection along the ski is an oversimplified picture, as the w ″ pattern differs not only temporally but also segmentally, depending on the employed technique and turn phase. In carving, the rear segment of the outer ski is considered to have a pivotal role for creating a clean and precise turn on the edge.
