Title: IscR Regulation of Capsular Polysaccharide Biosynthesis and Iron-Acquisition Systems in Klebsiella pneumoniae CG43
Authors: Chien-Chen Wu, Chien-Kuo Wang, Yu-Ching Chen, Tien-Huang Lin, Tzyy-Rong Jinn, Ching-Ting Lin
Year: 2014
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107812
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4169559

Abstract:
IscR, an Fe–S cluster-containing transcriptional factor, regulates genes involved in various cellular processes. In response to environmental stimuli such as oxidative stress and iron levels, IscR switches between its holo and apo forms to regulate various targets. IscR binding sequences are classified into two types: the type 1 IscR box that is specific for holo-IscR binding, and the type 2 IscR box that binds holo- and apo-IscR. Studying Klebsiella pneumoniae CG43S3, we have previously shown that iron availability regulates capsular polysaccharide (CPS) biosynthesis and iron-acquisition systems. The present study investigated whether IscR is involved in this regulation. Compared with that in CG43S3, the amount of CPS was decreased in AP001 (Δ iscR ) or AP002 ( iscR 3CA ), a CG43S3-derived strain expressing mutated IscR mimicked apo-IscR, suggesting that only holo-IscR activates CPS biosynthesis. Furthermore, a promoter-reporter assay verified that the transcription of cps genes was reduced in AP001 and AP002. Purified IscR::His 6 , but not IscR 3CA ::His 6 , was also found to bind the predicted type 1 IscR box specifically in the cps promoter. Furthermore, reduced siderophore production was observed in AP004 (Δ fur -Δ iscR ) but not in AP005 (Δ fur - iscR 3CA ), implying that apo-IscR activates iron acquisition. Compared with those in AP004, mRNA levels of three putative iron acquisition systems ( fhu , iuc , and sit ) were increased in AP005, and both purified IscR::His 6 and IscR 3CA ::His 6 bound the predicted type 2 IscR box in the fhuA , iucA , and sitA promoters, whereas IscR 3CA ::His 6 displayed a lower affinity. Finally, we analyzed the effect of external iron levels on iscR expression. The transcription of iscR was increased under iron-depleted conditions as well as in AP001 and AP002, suggesting an auto-repression exerted by apo-IscR. Our results show that in K. pneumoniae , IscR plays a dual role in the regulation of CPS biosynthesis and iron-acquisition systems in response to environmental iron availability.
