Title: Clinical investigation and management of Brucella suis seropositive dogs: A longitudinal case series
Authors: Catherine C. Kneipp, Ania T. Deutscher, Ronald Coilparampil, Anne Marie Rose, Jennifer Robson, Richard Malik, Mark A. Stevenson, Anke K. Wiethoelter, Siobhan M. Mor
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16678
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229326

Abstract:
Abstract Background Brucellosis in dogs caused by Brucella suis is an emerging zoonotic disease. Objectives To document clinical characteristics, serology, microbiology, and clinical response to treatment in B. suis ‐seropositive dogs. Animals Longitudinal study of 27 privately‐owned dogs. Dogs that tested positive by serology, culture, or real‐time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were included in the study. Methods Clinical (physical examination and imaging) and laboratory (serology, hematology, serum biochemistry, and qPCR or culture) assessments were made at baseline and after approximately 3, 6, 12, and 18 months. Results Dogs were followed for 10 895 dog days, with 17/27 dogs completing the 18‐month follow‐up. Ten dogs had signs consistent with brucellosis before enrollment (n = 4), at baseline (n = 2) or during follow‐up (n = 6), with 2 dogs experiencing relapse of historical signs. Antibody titers persisted for the duration of follow‐up in 15/17 dogs (88%). Radiographic (n = 5) and ultrasound (n = 11) findings, of variable clinical relevance, were observed. Brucella DNA and organisms were detected in 3 dogs, all of which had clinical signs, including in the milk of a bitch around the time of whelping. Brucella DNA was not detected in blood (n = 92 samples), urine (n = 80), saliva (n = 95) or preputial swabs (n = 78) at any time during follow‐up. Six dogs underwent treatment, all of which achieved clinical remission although remission was not reflected by decreasing antibody titers. Conclusions and Clinical Importance Most dogs with B. suis infections have subclinical infections. Serology is poorly associated with clinical disease. Excretion of organisms appears rare except in whelping bitches. Clinical management using antibiotics with or without surgery is recommended.
