Title: Lymphocyte-Specific Protein-1 Suppresses Xenobiotic-Induced Constitutive Androstane Receptor and Subsequent Yes-Associated Protein–Activated Hepatocyte Proliferation
Authors: Kelly Koral, Bharat Bhushan, Anne Orr, John Stoops, William C. Bowen, Matthew A. Copeland, Joseph Locker, Wendy M. Mars, George K. Michalopoulos
Year: 2022
Venue: The American Journal of Pathology
DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2022.03.010
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9194659

Abstract:
Activation of constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) transcription factor by xenobiotics promotes hepatocellular proliferation, promotes hypertrophy without liver injury, and induces drug metabolism genes. Previous work demonstrated that lymphocyte-specific protein-1 (LSP1), an F-actin binding protein and gene involved in human hepatocellular carcinoma, suppresses hepatocellular proliferation after partial hepatectomy. The current study investigated the role of LSP1 in liver enlargement induced by chemical mitogens, a regenerative process independent of tissue loss. 1,4-Bis [2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)] benzene (TCPOBOP), a direct CAR ligand and strong chemical mitogen, was administered to global Lsp1 knockout and hepatocyte-specific Lsp1 transgenic (TG) mice and measured cell proliferation, hypertrophy, and expression of CAR-dependent drug metabolism genes. TG livers displayed a significant decrease in Ki-67 labeling and liver/body weight ratios compared with wild type on day 2. Surprisingly, this was reversed by day 5, due to hepatocyte hypertrophy. There was no difference in CAR-regulated drug metabolism genes between wild type and TG. TG livers displayed increased Yes-associated protein (YAP) phosphorylation, decreased nuclear YAP, and direct interaction between LSP1 and YAP, suggesting LSP1 suppresses TCPOBOP-driven hepatocellular proliferation, but not hepatocyte volume, through YAP. Conversely, loss of LSP1 led to increased hepatocellular proliferation on days 2, 5, and 7. LSP1 selectively suppresses CAR-induced hepatocellular proliferation, but not drug metabolism, through the interaction of LSP1 with YAP, supporting the role of LSP1 as a selective growth suppressor.
