Title: A musculoskeletal finite element model of rat knee joint for evaluating cartilage biomechanics during gait
Authors: Gustavo A. Orozco, Kalle Karjalainen, Eng Kuan Moo, Lauri Stenroth, Petri Tanska, Jaqueline Lourdes Rios, Teemu V. Tuomainen, Mikko J. Nissi, Hanna Isaksson, Walter Herzog, Rami K. Korhonen
Year: 2022
Venue: PLoS Computational Biology
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009398
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9166403

Abstract:
Abnormal loading of the knee due to injuries or obesity is thought to contribute to the development of osteoarthritis (OA). Small animal models have been used for studying OA progression mechanisms. However, numerical models to study cartilage responses under dynamic loading in preclinical animal models have not been developed. Here we present a musculoskeletal finite element model of a rat knee joint to evaluate cartilage biomechanical responses during a gait cycle. The rat knee joint geometries were obtained from a 3-D MRI dataset and the boundary conditions regarding loading in the joint were extracted from a musculoskeletal model of the rat hindlimb. The fibril-reinforced poroelastic (FRPE) properties of the rat cartilage were derived from data of mechanical indentation tests. Our numerical results showed the relevance of simulating anatomical and locomotion characteristics in the rat knee joint for estimating tissue responses such as contact pressures, stresses, strains, and fluid pressures. We found that the contact pressure and maximum principal strain were virtually constant in the medial compartment whereas they showed the highest values at the beginning of the gait cycle in the lateral compartment. Furthermore, we found that the maximum principal stress increased during the stance phase of gait, with the greatest values at midstance. We anticipate that our approach serves as a first step towards investigating the effects of gait abnormalities on the adaptation and degeneration of rat knee joint tissues and could be used to evaluate biomechanically-driven mechanisms of the progression of OA as a consequence of joint injury or obesity. Author summary Osteoarthritis is a disease of the musculoskeletal system which is characterized by the degradation of articular cartilage. Changes in the knee loading after injuries or obesity contribute to the development of cartilage degeneration. Since injured cartilage cannot be reversed back to intact conditions, small animal models have been widely used for investigating osteoarthritis progression mechanisms. Moreover, experimental studies have been complemented with numerical models to overcome inherent limitations such as cost, difficulties to obtain accurate measures and replicate degenerative situations in the knee joint. However, computational models to study articular cartilage responses under dynamic loading in small animal models have not been developed. Thus, here we present a musculoskeletal finite element model (MSFE) of a rat knee joint to evaluate cartilage biomechanical responses during gait. Our computational model considers both the anatomical and locomotion characteristics of the rat knee joint for estimating mechanical responses in the articular cartilage. We suggest that our approach can be used to investigate tissue adaptations based on the mechanobiological responses of the cartilage to prevent the progression of osteoarthritis.
