Title: Enhanced in vivo and ex vivo thrombin generation after lower-leg trauma, but not after knee arthroscopy
Authors: Carolina E. Touw, Banne Nemeth, Raymond A. van Adrichem, Astrid van Hylckama Vlieg, Rob G. H. H. Nelissen, Ton Lisman, Suzanne C. Cannegieter
Year: 2023
Venue: Thrombosis Journal
DOI: 10.1186/s12959-023-00493-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10139833

Abstract:
Background There is room for improvement of prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) after lower-leg cast application or knee arthroscopy. Information about the mechanism of clot formation in these patients may be useful to identify new prophylaxis targets. We aimed to study the effect of 1) lower-leg injury and 2) knee arthroscopy on thrombin generation. Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted using plasma samples of POT-(K)CAST trials to measure ex vivo thrombin generation (Calibrated Automated Thrombography [CAT]) and plasma levels of prothrombin fragment 1 + 2 (F1 + 2), thrombin-antithrombin (TAT), fibrinopeptide A (FPA). Plasma was obtained shortly after lower-leg trauma or before and after (< 4 h) knee arthroscopy. Participants were randomly selected from those who did not develop VTE. For aim 1, samples of 88 patients with lower-leg injury were compared with 89 control samples (i.e., preoperative samples of arthroscopy patients). Linear regression was used to obtain mean differences (or ratios if ln-retransformed because of skewedness) adjusted for age, sex, body mass index, comorbidities. For aim 2, pre- and postoperative samples of 85 arthroscopy patients were compared, for which mean changes were obtained. Results In patients with lower-leg injury (aim 1), endogenous thrombin potential, thrombin peak, velocity index, FPA and TAT were increased as compared with controls. In arthroscopy patients (aim 2), pre- and postoperative levels were similar for all parameters. Conclusion Lower-leg trauma increases thrombin generation both ex vivo and in vivo, in contrast to knee arthroscopy. This may imply that the pathogenesis of VTE is different in both situations. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12959-023-00493-4.
