Title: Antibody Immunity to Zika Virus among Young Children in a Flavivirus-Endemic Area in Nicaragua
Authors: Omar Zepeda, Daniel O. Espinoza, Evelin Martinez, Kaitlyn A. Cross, Sylvia Becker-Dreps, Aravinda M. de Silva, Natalie M. Bowman, Lakshmanane Premkumar, Elizabeth M. Stringer, Filemón Bucardo, Matthew H. Collins
Year: 2023
Venue: Viruses
DOI: 10.3390/v15030796
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10052059

Abstract:
Objective : To understand the dynamics of Zika virus (ZIKV)-specific antibody immunity in children born to mothers in a flavivirus-endemic region during and after the emergence of ZIKV in the Americas. Methods : We performed serologic testing for ZIKV cross-reactive and type-specific IgG in two longitudinal cohorts, which enrolled pregnant women and their children (PW1 and PW2) after the beginning of the ZIKV epidemic in Nicaragua. Quarterly samples from children over their first two years of life and maternal blood samples at birth and at the end of the two-year follow-up period were studied. Results : Most mothers in this dengue-endemic area were flavivirus-immune at enrollment. ZIKV-specific IgG (anti-ZIKV EDIII IgG) was detected in 82 of 102 (80.4%) mothers in cohort PW1 and 89 of 134 (66.4%) mothers in cohort PW2, consistent with extensive transmission observed in Nicaragua during 2016. ZIKV-reactive IgG decayed to undetectable levels by 6–9 months in infants, whereas these antibodies were maintained in mothers at the year two time point. Interestingly, a greater contribution to ZIKV immunity by IgG3 was observed in babies born soon after ZIKV transmission. Finally, 43 of 343 (13%) children exhibited persistent or increasing ZIKV-reactive IgG at ≥9 months, with 10 of 30 (33%) tested demonstrating serologic evidence of incident dengue infection. Conclusions : These data inform our understanding of protective and pathogenic immunity to potential flavivirus infections in early life in areas where multiple flaviviruses co-circulate, particularly considering the immune interactions between ZIKV and dengue and the future possibility of ZIKV vaccination in women of childbearing potential. This study also shows the benefits of cord blood sampling for serologic surveillance of infectious diseases in resource-limited settings.
