Title: IgG4-related hypophysitis: A monocentric experience from North India
Authors: Ananda Mohan Chakraborty, Sushant Kumar Sahoo, Debajyoti Chatterjee, Pinaki Dutta, Rajender Kumar, Sanjay Kumar Bhadada
Year: 2022
Venue: Surgical Neurology International
DOI: 10.25259/SNI_1013_2022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805655

Abstract:
Background: Immunoglobulin (Ig)G4-related disease is a systemic fibroinflammatory disease characterized by dense infiltration of IgG4-positive plasma cells in the affected tissue(s) with or without elevated plasma levels of IgG4. Hypophysitis itself is a very rare disease with reported prevalence in the operative specimens are around 0.2–0.88%. IgG4-related hypophysitis (IgG4-RH) may account for a substantial percentage of cases previously regarded as idiopathic hypophysitis. Methods: This study is a registry-based, retrospective, and cohort study from a tertiary care hospital in North India. The medical records and clinical data of biopsy-proven and suspected IgG4-RH patients registered were retrospectively analyzed. Treatment outcome of cases was also explored during this analysis. Results: Two thousand and six sellar area space-occupying lesions have been operated-on since 2006, among them only four patients had IgG4-RH on histopathological specimen. One case was diagnosed on clinical suspicion. Mean age of the patients was 31.8 ± 6.32 years. Most frequent presenting complaint was headaches. Extracranial manifestations were present in four patients. The most common pituitary dysfunction was cortisol deficiency. 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F FDG PET) was helpful in three cases for diagnosis of hypophysitis and other organ involvement. Classical histological findings with storiform fibrosis, obliterative phlebitis seen in two cases, and IgG4-positive plasma cell infiltration were positive in four cases. Surgery was the primary modality of treatment in all four cases. Only one patient received steroids as a primary therapeutic modality. Conclusion: IgG4-RH is rare. High index of suspicion is required to diagnosis the case precisely. FDG PET is helpful in diagnosing hypophysitis and extrapituitary lesions.
