Title: First-in-human noninvasive left ventricular ultrasound pacing: A potential screening tool for cardiac resynchronization therapy
Authors: Kenneth C. Bilchick, Ekaterina Morgounova, Pim Oomen, Rohit Malhotra, Pamela K. Mason, Mike Mangrum, David Kim, Xu Gao, Andrew E. Darby, Oliver J. Monfredi, Joy A. Aso, Peter M. Franzen, Robert W. Stadler
Year: 2023
Venue: Heart Rhythm O2
DOI: 10.1016/j.hroo.2022.10.008
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975015

Abstract:
Background A screening tool to predict response to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) could improve patient selection and outcomes. Objective The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility and safety of noninvasive CRT via transcutaneous ultrasonic left ventricular (LV) pacing applied as a screening test before CRT implants. Methods P-wave–triggered ultrasound stimuli were delivered during bolus dosing of an echocardiographic contrast agent to simulate CRT noninvasively. Ultrasound pacing was delivered at a variety of LV locations with a range of atrioventricular delays to achieve fusion with intrinsic ventricular activation. Three-dimensional cardiac activation maps were acquired via the Medtronic CardioInsight 252-electrode mapping vest during baseline, ultrasound pacing, and after CRT implantation. A separate control group received only the CRT implants. Results Ultrasound pacing was achieved in 10 patients with a mean of 81.2 ± 50.8 ultrasound paced beats per patient and up to 20 consecutive beats of ultrasound pacing. QRS width at baseline (168.2 ± 17.8 ms) decreased significantly to 117.3 ± 21.5 ms ( P <.001) in the best ultrasound paced beat and to 125.8 ± 13.3 ms ( P <.001) in the best CRT beat. Electrical activation patterns were similar between CRT pacing and ultrasound pacing with stimulation from the same area of the LV. Troponin results were similar between the ultrasound pacing and the control groups ( P = .96), confirming safety. Conclusion Noninvasive ultrasound pacing before CRT is safe and feasible, and it estimates the degree of electrical resynchronization achievable with CRT. Further study of this promising technique to guide CRT patient selection is warranted. Graphical abstract
