Title: Comprehensive multi-omics analysis reveals m7G-related signature for evaluating prognosis and immunotherapy efficacy in osteosarcoma
Authors: Yiming Zhang, Wenyi Gan, Nan Ru, Zhaowen Xue, Wenjie Chen, Zihang Chen, Huajun Wang, Xiaofei Zheng
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Bone Oncology
DOI: 10.1016/j.jbo.2023.100481
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149372

Abstract:
Highlights • We identified N7-methylguanosine methylation prognostic molecular subtypes and signature in osteosarcoma for the first time. • The N7-methylguanosine-related signature was effective in predicting survival and immune landscape in osteosarcoma patients. • Dual validation of N7-methylguanosine regulators with bulk and single cell transcriptome data. • EIF4E3 may promote the growth, invasion, and migration of osteosarcoma cells as verified in-vitro experiments. Background Osteosarcoma is one of the most prevalent bone malignancies with a poor prognosis. The N7-methylguanosine (m7G) modification facilitates the modification of RNA structure and function tightly associated with cancer. Nonetheless, there is a lack of joint exploration of the relationship between m7G methylation and immune status in osteosarcoma. Methods With the support of TARGET and GEO databases, we performed consensus clustering to characterize molecular subtypes based on m7G regulators in all osteosarcoma patients. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) method, Cox regression, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were employed to construct and validate m7G-related prognostic features and derived risk scores. In addition, GSVA, ssGSEA, CIBERSORT, ESTIMATE, and gene set enrichment analysis were conducted to characterize biological pathways and immune landscapes. We explored the relationship between risk scores and drug sensitivity, immune checkpoints, and human leukocyte antigens by correlation analysis. Finally, the roles of EIF4E3 in cell function were verified through external experiments. Results Two molecular isoforms based on regulator genes were identified, which presented significant discrepancies in terms of survival and activated pathways. Moreover, the six m7G regulators most associated with prognosis in osteosarcoma patients were identified as independent predictors for the construction of prognostic signature. The model was well stabilized and outperformed traditional clinicopathological features to reliably predict 3-year (AUC = 0.787) and 5-year (AUC = 0.790) survival in osteosarcoma cohorts. Patients with increased risk scores had a poorer prognosis, higher tumor purity, lower checkpoint gene expression, and were in an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Furthermore, enhanced expression of EIF4E3 indicated a favorable prognosis and affected the biological behavior of osteosarcoma cells. Conclusions We identified six prognostic relevant m7G modulators that may provide valuable indicators for the estimation of overall survival and the corresponding immune landscape in patients with osteosarcoma.
