Title: Design of a treatment satisfaction measure for patients undergoing varicose vein treatment: Venous Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (VenousTSQ)
Authors: Charlie J Gilbride, Alison Wilson, Anita Bradley-Gilbride, Janet Bayfield, Kathleen Gibson, Manjit Gohel, Clare Bradley
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac387
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364492

Abstract:
Abstract Background Established condition-specific patient-reported outcome measures for varicose veins are limited to the measurement of health status and function. A treatment satisfaction measure is needed to understand patient satisfaction with different treatment options. The aim of this study was to design a Venous Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (VenousTSQ) that would be ready for large-scale data collection and psychometric evaluation. Methods Relevant items were selected from the -TSQ Item Library and new items were designed where necessary. A draft VenousTSQ was prepared using the existing AneurysmTSQ as a template. Fifteen interviews were conducted from 4 days to 16 months after the procedure. The interviews were designed to elicit important sources of satisfaction or dissatisfaction before completion of draft questionnaires. The VenousTSQ drafts were modified between sets of interviews until no further changes were required. Results The final VenousTSQ consists of two questionnaires: VenousTSQ early (VenousTSQe) and VenousTSQ status (VenousTSQs). Items that need be asked only once are in the VenousTSQe, whereas those that can usefully be asked more than once are in the VenousTSQs. Of the 16 unique items forming the VenousTSQ, 12 were from the -TSQ Item Library. Only 1 of these 12 required significant modification. Conclusions The VenousTSQ represents a condition-specific psychological outcome measure for varicose veins, enabling patient satisfaction or dissatisfaction with such treatments to be measured. Large-scale data collection is under way to establish optimal scoring, quantitative validity, and reliability of the VenousTSQ. A treatment satisfaction measure is needed to understand patient satisfaction with the different options that are available to treat varicose veins. This article reports the qualitative work undertaken for the design of the Venous Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (VenousTSQ). The VenousTSQ is the first condition-specific psychological outcome measure for varicose veins, which will enable the patient satisfaction/dissatisfaction with such treatments to be measured for the first time.
