Title: Comparing the Therapeutic Mechanism and Immune Response of Human and Mouse Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Immunocompetent Mice With Acute Liver Failure
Authors: Chang-Hung Wang, Che-Yi Chen, Kai-Hung Wang, An-Pei Kao, Yi-Jou Chen, Pei-Hsuan Lin, Michael Chen, Tung-Yun Wu, Jing-Jy Cheng, Kuan-Der Lee, Kuo-Hsiang Chuang
Year: 2023
Venue: Stem Cells Translational Medicine
DOI: 10.1093/stcltm/szac084
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887270

Abstract:
Abstract Current mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) research is based on xenotransplantation of human MSCs (hMSCs) in immunodeficient mice and cannot comprehensively predict MSC repair mechanisms and immunomodulatory effects in damaged tissue. This study compared the therapeutic efficacy, mechanisms, and immune response of hMSCs and mouse MSCs (mMSCs) in immunocompetent mice with CCl 4 -induced acute liver failure. mMSCs maintained F4/80 + hepatic macrophage recruitment into the damaged liver region, increased IL-6-dependent hepatocyte proliferation, and reduced inflammatory TNF-α cytokine secretion. Moreover, mMSCs reduced α-SMA + myofibroblast activation by lowering TGF-β1 accumulation in damaged liver tissue. In contrast, hMSCs lowered TNF-α and TGF-β1 by reducing the recruitment of F4/80 + hepatic macrophages, which lost the ability to remove debris and induce IL-6 liver regeneration. Finally, hMSCs, but not mMSCs, caused a significant antibody response in immunocompetent mice; therefore, hMSCs are unsuitable for long-term MSC studies. This comparative study provides reference information for further MSC studies of immunocompetent mice. Graphical Abstract Graphical Abstract The mMSCs treatment showed less injured liver area than the hMSCs. Liver regeneration relies on F4/80 + macrophage and IL-6-dependent hepatocyte proliferation. The mMSC, but not hMSC, maintained the F4/80 + macrophage recruitment and IL-6-dependent hepatocyte proliferation. Both the hMSC and mMSC reduced α-SMA + fibroblast activation. However, the hMSC showed a high antibody immune response in immunocompetent mice with acute liver failure.
