Title: Development of PEGylated PLGA Nanoparticles Co-Loaded with Bioactive Compounds: Potential Anticancer Effect on Breast Cancer Cell Lines
Authors: Sina Mohammadinejad, Davoud Jafari-Gharabaghlou, Nosratollah Zarghami
Year: 2022
Venue: Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention : APJCP
DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2022.23.12.4063
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971482

Abstract:
Objective: The incidence of breast cancer continues to rise despite decades of laboratory, epidemiological and clinical research. Breast cancer is still the leading cause of cancer death in women. Cyclin D1 is one of the most important oncoproteins associated with cancer cell proliferation and is overexpressed in more than 50% of cases. Curcumin and chrysin are plant-derived components that are believed to assist in inhibiting the viability of breast cancer cells. These agents are involved in cancer cells’ growth and reducing cyclin D1 expression. In this study, the hypothesis of combining curcumin and chrysin is applied to analyze the potential synergistic effect in inhibiting cancer cell proliferation and down-regulation of cyclin D1. Furthermore, applying PLGA-PEG NPs could improve the bioavailability of free curcumin and chrysin components and at the same time increases the anti-cancer potential of this compound. Methods: PLGA-PEG NPs were synthesized via the ring-opening polymerization technique and characterized with FT-IR and FE-SEM for chemical structure and morphological characteristics, respectively. Next, curcumin and chrysin were loaded in PLGA-PEG NPs and MTT assay was performed to assess the cytotoxic effect of these agents. T-47D cells were treated with appropriate concentrations of these agents and cyclin D1 expression level was evaluated by real-time PCR. Results: The obtained results from FT-IR and FE-SEM techniques illustrated that curcumin and chrysin were efficiently encapsulated into PLGA-PEG NPs. Curcumin, chrysin, and curcumin-chrysin in free and nano-encapsulated forms exhibited an anti-cancer effect on T-47D cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner, especially in a combination of free and encapsulated forms demonstrated synergistic anti-cancer effects. Compared to free form, Nano-curcumin, Nano-chrysin, and Nano-combination remarkably down-regulated cyclin D1 gene expression. (p-value < 0.05). Conclusion: Our results revealed that the curcumin-chrysin combination has a synergistic effect and the encapsulated form of this nano-component has more inhibition on cyclin D1 expression.
