Title: Chemical composition of cassava-based feed ingredients from South-East Asia
Authors: Natalia S. Fanelli, Leidy J. Torres-Mendoza, Jerubella J. Abelilla, Hans H. Stein
Year: 2023
Venue: Animal Bioscience
DOI: 10.5713/ab.22.0360
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10164543

Abstract:
Objective Information about the chemical composition of cassava-based feed ingredients is needed to accurately formulate animal diets. A study was conducted to determine the chemical composition of cassava-based feed ingredients and to test the hypothesis that there is variation in chemical composition among cassava products originating from different South-East Asian countries. Methods Sources of dried peeled and unpeeled cassava roots, cassava chips, cassava meal, high-ash cassava meal, and cassava residue were used. All samples were analyzed for dry matter, gross energy, nitrogen, amino acids (AA), acid-hydrolyzed ether extract (AEE), ash, minerals, total starch, insoluble dietary fiber, and soluble dietary fiber. Samples of peeled and unpeeled cassava roots, cassava chips, and cassava meal were also analyzed for sugars. Results High-ash cassava meal had greater (p<0.05) dry matter and ash, but lower (p<0.05) total starch and gross energy than all other cassava products. Peeled cassava roots, unpeeled cassava roots, and cassava chips had greater (p<0.05) total starch than the other cassava-based ingredients. Cassava residue had greater (p<0.05) concentrations of lysine, insoluble dietary fiber, and soluble dietary fiber compared with the other cassava products, but tryptophan and glutamic acid were greater (p<0.05) in peeled cassava roots, cassava chips, and cassava meal samples compared with the other ingredients. Concentration of most minerals was greater (p<0.05) in high-ash cassava meal than in the other cassava products. Conclusion Cassava-based ingredients sold as peeled roots, unpeeled roots, chips, or meal have chemical compositions that are not different from each other, and peeling has little impact on chemical composition. High-ash cassava meal has lower nutritional quality compared with other cassava products due to low starch and gross energy. The high fiber content in cassava residue makes this ingredient more suitable for ruminants and sows than for younger pigs or poultry.
