Title: A proof-of-concept study for the use of a computerised avatar to embody the eating disorder voice in anorexia nervosa
Authors: Valentina Cardi, Thomas Ward, Viviana Aya, Chiara Calissano, Alistair Thompson, Janet Treasure
Year: 2022
Venue: Eating and Weight Disorders
DOI: 10.1007/s40519-022-01487-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803737

Abstract:
Purpose This study assessed (1) the experience of the eating disorder voice in people with anorexia nervosa or in remission, and (2) the feasibility of creating and interacting with a computerised representation (i.e., avatar) of this voice. Methods Twenty-one individuals with anorexia nervosa and 18 individuals who were in remission participated in the study. They reported on the characteristics of their eating disorder voice and created a personalised avatar (a visual and auditory representation of the eating disorder voice), using a computerised software. Participants assessed closeness of match between the voice and the avatar, perceived distress and acceptability of re-exposure to the avatar. Results Patients felt less powerful than their eating disorder voice and unable to disregard the voice's commands. The experience of the voice was associated with negative, as well as some positive emotions, reflecting the prototypical ambivalence towards the illness. Individuals in remission had an opposite pattern of responses. They attributed only negative emotions to the voice, felt more powerful than the voice, and able to disregard its commands. Overall participants reported that there was a good match between the voice and the sound of the avatar. Patients expressed willingness to repeat exposure to the avatar. Conclusion Individuals with anorexia can create personalised digital avatars representing the eating disorder voice and are willing to engage therapeutically with the avatar. The next step is to test the feasibility of repeated exposure to the avatar to address the power and distress associated with the eating disorder voice. Level of evidence Level III.
