Title: Optimising plasma clozapine levels to improve treatment response: an individual patient data meta-analysis and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis
Authors: Korinne Northwood, E. Pearson, U. Arnautovska, S. Kisely, M. Pawar, M. Sharma, K. Vitangcol, E. Wagner, N. Warren, Dan Siskind
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Psychiatry
DOI: 10.1192/bjp.2023.27
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10201335

Abstract:
Background Although clozapine is the most efficacious medication for treatment-refractory schizophrenia, not all patients will have an adequate response. Optimising clozapine dose using therapeutic drug monitoring could therefore maximise response. Aims Using individual patient data, we undertook a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to determine an optimal therapeutic range for clozapine levels to guide clinical practice. Method We conducted a systematic review of PubMed, PsycINFO and Embase for studies that provided individual participant level data on clozapine levels and response. These data were analysed using ROC curves to determine the prediction performance of plasma clozapine levels for treatment response. Results We included data on 294 individual participants from nine studies. ROC analysis yielded an area under the curve of 0.612. The clozapine level at the point of optimal diagnostic benefit was 372 ng/mL; at this level, the response sensitivity was 57.3%, and specificity 65.7%. The interquartile range for treatment response was 223–558 ng/mL. There was no improvement in ROC performance with mixed models including patient gender, age or length of trial. Clozapine dose and clozapine concentration to dose ratio did not provide significantly meaningful prediction of response to clozapine. Conclusions Clozapine dose should be optimised based on clozapine therapeutic levels. We found that a range between 250 and 550 ng/mL could be recommended, while noting that a level of >350 ng/mL is the most optimal for response. Although some patients may not respond without clozapine levels >550 ng/mL, the benefits should be weighed against the increased risk of adverse drug reactions.
