Title: Building capacity for the use of systems science to support local government public health planning: a case study of the VicHealth Local Government Partnership in Victoria, Australia
Authors: Siobhan O'Halloran, Joshua Hayward, Claudia Strugnell, Tiana Felmingham, Jaimie Poorter, Stephanie Kilpatrick, Penny Fraser, Cindy Needham, Ebony Rhook, Alessandro DeMaio, Steven Allender
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-068190
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806011

Abstract:
Objective To present an approach to build capacity for the use of systems science to support local communities in municipal public health and well-being planning. Design Case study. Setting Local government authorities participating in the VicHealth Local Government Partnership in Victoria, Australia. Participants Local government staff members were trained in community-based system dynamics (CBSD), and group model building (GMB) techniques to mobilise local community efforts. The trained local government facilitation teams then delivered GMB workshops to community stakeholder groups from 13 local government areas (LGA)s. Main outcomes Training in CBSD was conducted with council facilitation teams in 13 LGAs, followed by the local delivery of GMB workshops 1–3 to community stakeholders. Causal loop diagrams (CLD) representing localised drivers of mental well-being, healthy eating, active living or general health and well-being of children and young people were developed by community stakeholders. Locally tailored action ideas were generated such as well-being classes in school, faster active transport and access to free and low-cost sporting programmes Results Overall, 111 local government staff participated in CBSD training. Thirteen CLDs were developed, with the stakeholders that included children, young people and community members, who had participated in the GMB workshops across all 13 council sites. Workshop 3 had the highest total number of participants (n=301), followed by workshop 1 (n=287) and workshop 2 (n=171). Conclusions Local facilitation of the CBSD process has developed community informed and locally relevant CLDs that will be used to lead local action to improve the well-being of children and young people. Training employees in CBSD is one approach to increase systems thinking capacity within local government.
