Title: α-Tocopherol Protects Lipopolysaccharide-Activated BV2 Microglia
Authors: Maria Ester La Torre, Antonia Cianciulli, Vincenzo Monda, Marcellino Monda, Francesca Martina Filannino, Laura Antonucci, Anna Valenzano, Giuseppe Cibelli, Chiara Porro, Giovanni Messina, Maria Antonietta Panaro, Antonietta Messina, Rita Polito
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083340
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141518

Abstract:
Microglia, the resident macrophage-like population in the central nervous system, play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative disorders by triggering an inflammatory response that leads to neuronal death. Neuroprotective compounds to treat or prevent neurodegenerative diseases are a new field of study in modern medicine. Microglia are activated in response to inflammatory stimuli. The pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases is closely related to the constant activation of microglia due to their fundamental role as a mediator of inflammation in the brain environment. α-Tocopherol, also known as vitamin E, is reported to possess potent neuroprotective effects. The goal of this study was to investigate the biological effects of vitamin E on BV2 microglial cells, as a possible neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory agent, following stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The results showed that the pre-incubation of microglia with α-tocopherol can guarantee neuroprotective effects during microglial activation induced by LPS. α-Tocopherol preserved the branched morphology typical of microglia in a physiological state. It also reduced the migratory capacity; the production of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-10; and the activation of receptors such as TRL4 and CD40, which modulate the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. The results of this study require further insights and research, but they present new scenarios for the application of vitamin E as an antioxidant for the purpose of greater neuroprotection in vivo for the prevention of possible neurodegenerative diseases.
