Title: The birth and evolution of solvated electrons in the water
Authors: Fabio Novelli, Kaixuan Chen, Adrian Buchmann, Thorsten Ockelmann, Claudius Hoberg, Teresa Head-Gordon, Martina Havenith
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216480120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974507

Abstract:
Significance The solvated electron is a fundamental reaction intermediate in physical, chemical, and biological processes. Here, we follow the birth and time evolution of the solvated electron with state-of-the-art, solvent-sensitive kinetic terahertz spectroscopy and molecular simulations. We observe a spectroscopic signature attributed to the delocalized electron, followed by the onset of a solvent perturbation caused by the initial charge separation of hydroxyl radicals and hydronium cations. Due to the high experimental sensitivity, we observe in addition the spectroscopic signature of the localized electron, which is long lasting (>250 ps): This reveals a weakening of the hydrogen bond network of the cage, which correlates with an increase in entropy due to greater orientational motions of the surrounding hydration layers. The photo-induced radiolysis of water is an elementary reaction in biology and chemistry, forming solvated electrons, OH radicals, and hydronium cations on fast time scales. Here, we use an optical-pump terahertz-probe spectroscopy setup to trigger the photoionization of water molecules with optical laser pulses at ~400 nm and then time-resolve the transient solvent response with broadband terahertz (THz) fields with a ~90 fs time resolution. We observe three distinct spectral responses. The first is a positive broadband mode that can be attributed to an initial diffuse, delocalized electron with a radius of (22 ± 1) Å, which is short lived (<200 fs) because the absorption is blue-shifting outside of the THz range. The second emerging spectroscopic signature with a lifetime of about 150 ps is attributed to an intermolecular mode associated with a mass rearrangement of solvent molecules due to charge separation of radicals and hydronium cations. After 0.2 ps, we observe a long-lasting THz signature with depleted intensity at 110 cm −1 that is well reproduced by ab initio molecular dynamics. We interpret this negative band at 110 cm −1 as the solvent cage characterized by a weakening of the hydrogen bond network in the first and second hydration shells of the cavity occupied by the localized electron.
