Title: Spatial organization of lysosomal exocytosis relies on membrane tension gradients
Authors: Hugo Lachuer, Laurent Le, Sandrine Lévêque-Fort, Bruno Goud, Kristine Schauer
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2207425120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974462

Abstract:
Significance We show a role of membrane tension in lysosomal exocytosis. This process supports the release of molecules and vesicles from intracellular compartments called late endosomes/lysosomes. Lysosomal exocytosis is key to the repair and growth of the plasma membrane, the remodeling of the cell microenvironment and cell communication. It has also fundamental importance for virus release, cancer cell invasion, and lysosomal storage disorders. Thus, lysosomal exocytosis is a function of broad interest but not well understood. We reveal that a gradient of membrane tension in cells, organized by cellular adhesions, plays in important role in defining how lysosomal exocytosis is organized. Lysosomal exocytosis is involved in many key cellular processes but its spatiotemporal regulation is poorly known. Using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM) and spatial statistics, we observed that lysosomal exocytosis is not random at the adhesive part of the plasma membrane of RPE1 cells but clustered at different scales. Although the rate of exocytosis is regulated by the actin cytoskeleton, neither interfering with actin or microtubule dynamics by drug treatments alters its spatial organization. Exocytosis events partially co-appear at focal adhesions (FAs) and their clustering is reduced upon removal of FAs. Changes in membrane tension following a hypo-osmotic shock or treatment with methyl-β-cyclodextrin were found to increase clustering. To investigate the link between FAs and membrane tension, cells were cultured on adhesive ring-shaped micropatterns, which allow to control the spatial organization of FAs. By using a combination of TIRFM and fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM), we revealed the existence of a radial gradient in membrane tension. By changing the diameter of micropatterned substrates, we further showed that this gradient as well as the extent of exocytosis clustering can be controlled. Together, our data indicate that the spatial clustering of lysosomal exocytosis relies on membrane tension patterning controlled by the spatial organization of FAs.
