Title: Linking key husbandry factors to the intrinsic quality of broiler meat
Authors: Joanna Marchewka, Patryk Sztandarski, Magdalena Solka, Helen Louton, Katharina Rath, Lukas Vogt, Elke Rauch, Dionne Ruijter, Ingrid C. de Jong, Jarosław O. Horbańczuk
Year: 2023
Venue: Poultry Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2022.102384
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801217

Abstract:
Broiler farming is the fastest-growing animal production sector and broiler meat is the second most-consumed meat in the world. The intensification of broiler production often has a negative impact on the meat quality and carcass characteristics. Consumers, however, expect a quality product from animals reared extensively on farms providing good animal welfare, often intuitively associated with extensive farming practices. Therefore, this literature review investigates how the critical factors contributing to the degree of extensiveness of broiler production affect the quality of meat. We used the data from scientific articles published in the years 2012–2021 to analyze the effect of diet (n = 409), genetics (n = 86), enrichment (n = 25), and stocking density (n = 20) on meat quality and carcass characteristics. Minerals and microelements supplementation in the diet improved all the meat quality aspects: sensory, physical, and chemical in most studies. Minerals and enzymes in the diet had beneficial effects on carcass characteristics, unlike feed restriction and ingredient substitutions. The impact of outdoor access on meat quality and carcass characteristics was most frequently examined, in contrast to the use of perches or effects of litter quality. Overall, enrichment did not affect the meat's sensory or physical parameters, but outdoor access improved its lipid composition. Lower stocking density deteriorated intramuscular fat content, decreased tenderness and juiciness, yet lowered cooking and drip loss, and increased carcass and breast muscle yields. When it comes to genetics, in general, slow growing broiler strains have better meat quality parameters, especially regarding yellowness (b*), redness (a*), cooking and drip loss. Our review shows that the factors which contribute to extensiveness of broiler production systems and birds’ welfare also affect meat quality and the carcass characteristics.
