Title: Encoding of dynamic facial information in the middle dorsal face area
Authors: Zetian Yang, Winrich A. Freiwald
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2212735120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974491

Abstract:
Significance Faces signal social information through two channels, shape and motion. These are thought to be processed by two separate processing pathways. While much research has been devoted to the pathway processing facial shape, no similarly mechanistic understanding exists for facial motion. Here, to gain such insights, we conduct single-unit electrophysiological recordings from the middle dorsal face area, MD. MD contains cells that are highly selective for naturalistic facial shape-motion combinations, shifting the representation into a higher dimensional space. The MD population is sensitive to small but important face motion like gaze shifts and, using separate reference frames, can separate motion components of head, mouth, and eyes. Thus, a heterogeneous MD population generates separable codes that capture complex face motion. Faces in motion reveal a plethora of information through visual dynamics. Faces can move in complex patterns while transforming facial shape, e.g., during the generation of different emotional expressions. While motion and shape processing have been studied extensively in separate research enterprises, much less is known about their conjunction during biological motion. Here, we took advantage of the discovery in brain-imaging studies of an area in the dorsal portion of the macaque monkey superior temporal sulcus (STS), the middle dorsal face area (MD), with selectivity for naturalistic face motion. To gain mechanistic insights into the coding of facial motion, we recorded single-unit activity from MD, testing whether and how MD cells encode face motion. The MD population was highly sensitive to naturalistic facial motion and facial shape. Some MD cells responded only to the conjunction of facial shape and motion, others were selective for facial shape even without movement, and yet others were suppressed by facial motion. We found that this heterogeneous MD population transforms face motion into a higher dimensional activity space, a representation that would allow for high sensitivity to relevant small-scale movements. Indeed, we show that many MD cells carry such sensitivity for eye movements. We further found that MD cells encode motion of head, mouth, and eyes in a separable manner, requiring the use of multiple reference frames. Thus, MD is a bona fide face–motion area that uses highly heterogeneous cell populations to create codes capturing even complex facial motion trajectories.
