Title: Allopolyploid origin and niche expansion of Rhodiola integrifolia (Crassulaceae)
Authors: Da-Lv Zhong, Yuan-Cong Li, Jian-Qiang Zhang
Year: 2023
Venue: Plant Diversity
DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2022.08.004
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975476

Abstract:
Polyploidy after hybridization between species can lead to immediate post-zygotic isolation, causing saltatory origin of new species. Although the incidence of polyploidization in plants is high, it is thought that a new polyploid lineage can succeed only if it establishes a new ecological niche divergent from its progenitor lineages. We tested the hypothesis that Rhodiola integrifolia from North America is an allopolyploid produced by R. rhodantha and R. rosea and determined whether its survival can be explained by the niche divergence hypothesis. To this end, we sequenced two low-copy nuclear genes ( ncpGS and rpb2 ) in a phylogenetic analysis of 42 Rhodiola species and tested for niche equivalency and similarity using Schoener’s D as the index of niche overlap. Our phylogeny-based approach showed that R. integrifolia possesses alleles from both R. rhodantha and R. rosea . Dating analysis showed that the hybridization event that led to R. integrifolia occurred ca . 1.67 Mya and niche modeling analysis showed that at this time, both R. rosea and R. rhodantha may have been present in Beringia, providing the opportunity for the hybridization event. We also found that the niche of R. integrifolia differs from that of its progenitors in both niche breadth and optimum. Taken together, these results confirm the hybrid origin of R. integrifolia and support the niche divergence hypothesis for this tetraploid species. Our results underscore the fact that lineages with no current overlapping distribution could produce hybrid descendants in the past, when climate oscillations made their distributions overlap. Highlights • The hybrid origin of Rhodiola integrifolia was confirmed using nuclear markers and a phylogeny-based method. • Rhodiola integrifolia possesses an expanded ecological niche compared to its progenitors. • Lineages with no current overlapping distribution may have produced hybrid descendants in the past.
