Title: Impact of vitamin AD 3 E treatment before application of controlled intra-vaginal drug releaser on clinical and hematologic findings, ovarian hormones, and calving rates in she-camels ( Camelus dromedarius )
Authors: Ragab H. Mohamed, Arafat Khalphallah, Fatma Ali, Ebtsam S. Abdel-lah, Abdulrahman Abdulkarim, Enas Elmeligy
Year: 2022
Venue: Open Veterinary Journal
DOI: 10.5455/OVJ.2022.v12.i6.24
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805759

Abstract:
Background: The scope of using controlled intra-vaginal drug releasers (CIDR) in the camel industry was small relative to that of cow, sheep, and goat. Aim: The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of intramuscular injection of AD 3 E (25 ml/400 kg) as a premedication protocol before CIDR treatment on ovarian hormones profile and calving rate in dromedary she-camels ( Camelus dromedarius ) through measuring concentrations of progesterone (P4) and estradiol (E2) before, during, and after CIDR use. Methods: The study was conducted on she-camels ( C. dromedarius ) ( n = 24) aged between 6 and 14 years. The animals were assigned into two equal groups: CIDR treated group (CIDR gr ) and AD 3 E plus CIDR treated group (CIDR + gr ). Results: Except for hemoglobin, the clinical and hematological findings showed no remarkable change either within each independent group or between CIDR gr and CIDR + gr . Serum P4 and E2 concentrations differed significantly between the first 7 days (during CIDR use) and days from 9 to 15 (after CIDR use) in dromedary camels. Serum concentrations of P4 and E2 showed significant elevation at CIDR + gr at day 0 compared with CIDR gr . This significant increase in serum of P4 and E2 at CIDR + gr compared to those of CIDR gr was also observed either during CIDR use (days 3, 5, and 7) or after CIDR use (days 9, 11, 13, and 15). During CIDR use, serum concentrations of P4 were negatively correlated with those of E2 either in CIDR gr or CIDR + gr , however, they were positively correlated after CIDR removal either in CIDR gr or CIDR + gr . Regarding the calving rate, it was highest in CIDR + gr whereas CIDR gr showed the lowest one. Conclusion: It was concluded that the AD 3 E pretreatment protocol of she-camels before insertion of CIDR could be used successfully during the breeding season to improve fertility in she-camels whereas the serum ovarian hormones profile and calving rates were clearly changed due to pretreatment of she-camels with AD 3 E before CIDR insertion.
