Title: The effect of obstetric violence during childbirth on breastfeeding: findings from a perinatal cohort “Birth in Brazil”
Authors: Tatiana Henriques Leite, Emanuele Souza Marques, Marília Arndt Mesenburg, Mariangela Freitas da Silveira, Maria do Carmo Leal
Year: 2023
Venue: Lancet Regional Health - Americas
DOI: 10.1016/j.lana.2023.100438
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975306

Abstract:
Summary Background Recent literature has shown that many women worldwide are victims of obstetric violence during childbirth. Despite that, few studies are exploring the consequences of such violence on women's and newborn's health. Thus, the present study aimed to investigate the causal association between obstetric violence during childbirth and breastfeeding. Methods We used data from the study “Birth in Brazil”, a national hospital-based cohort of puerperal women and their newborns in 2011/2012. The analysis involved 20,527 women. Obstetric violence was a latent variable composed of seven indicators (physical or psychological violence, disrespect, lack of information, privacy and communication with the healthcare team, inability to ask questions, and loss of autonomy). We worked with two outcomes: 1) breastfeeding at the maternity and 2) breastfeeding 43–180 days after birth. We applied multigroup structural equation modelling, based on the type of birth. Findings Obstetric violence during childbirth may decrease the probability for women to leave the maternity ward breastfeeding exclusively, having a stronger effect on women who have vaginal birth. Also, being exposed to obstetric violence during childbirth could indirectly affect those women's ability to breastfeed 43–180 days after birth. Interpretation This research concludes that obstetric violence during childbirth is a risk factor for breastfeeding discontinuation. Such knowledge is relevant so interventions and public policies can be proposed in order to mitigate obstetric violence and provide a better understanding of the context that may lead a woman into discontinuing breastfeeding. Funding This research was funded by 10.13039/501100002322 CAPES , CNPQ , DeCiT , and INOVA-ENSP .
