Title: Piwi maintains homeostasis in the Drosophila adult intestine
Authors: Xiongzhuo Tang, Na Liu, Hongying Qi, Haifan Lin
Year: 2023
Venue: Stem Cell Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2023.01.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9969073

Abstract:
Summary PIWI genes are well known for their germline but not somatic functions. Here, we report the function of the Drosophila piwi gene in the adult gut, where intestinal stem cells (ISCs) produce enteroendocrine cells and enteroblasts that generate enterocytes. We show that piwi is expressed in ISCs and enteroblasts. Piwi deficiency reduced ISC number, compromised enteroblasts maintenance, and induced apoptosis in enterocytes, but did not affect ISC proliferation and its differentiation to enteroendocrine cells. In addition, deficiency of zygotic but not maternal piwi mildly de-silenced several retrotransposons in the adult gut. Importantly, either piwi mutations or piwi knockdown specifically in ISCs and enteroblasts shortened the Drosophila lifespan, indicating that intestinal piwi contributes to longevity. Finally, our mRNA sequencing data implied that Piwi may achieve its intestinal function by regulating diverse molecular processes involved in metabolism and oxidation-reduction reaction. Highlights • Drosophila piwi gene is expressed in adult intestinal stem cells and enteroblasts • Piwi is needed for establishing intestinal stem cells and sustaining its main lineage • Piwi contributes to retrotransposon silencing in the adult gut • Piwi regulates diverse metabolic and oxidation-reduction pathways in the intestine Associated podcast For an associated discussion of this work, listen to the latest episode of The Stem Cell Report podcast at https://www.isscr.org/podcast/s2-e7 , brought to you by the ISSCR. Piwi genes are well known for their germline but not somatic functions. Tang and colleagues show that Drosophila Piwi acts in adult intestinal stem cells (ISCs) and enteroblasts. Piwi deficiency in these cells reduces ISC number, compromises enteroblast maintenance, causes enterocyte apoptosis, and de-silences some transposons in the adult gut, which accounts for Piwi function for fly survival.
