Title: Safe Optimal Tear Drop View for Spinopelvic Fixation Using a Three-Dimensional Reconstruction Model of the Pelvis
Authors: Sung Cheol Park, Tae Chang Hong, Jae Hyuk Yang, Dong-Gune Chang, Seung Woo Suh, Yunjin Nam, Min-Seok Kang, Tae-Gon Jung, Kwang-Min Park, Kwan-Su Kang
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22360
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232313

Abstract:
Background Spinopelvic fixation (SPF) has been a challenge for surgeons despite the advancements in instruments and surgical techniques. C-arm fluoroscopy-guided SPF is a widely used safe technique that utilizes the tear drop view. The tear drop view is an image of the corridor from the posterior superior iliac spine to the anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) of the pelvis. This study aimed to define the safe optimal tear drop view using three-dimensional reconstruction of computed tomography images. Methods Three-dimensional reconstructions of the pelvises of 20 individuals were carried out. By rotating the reconstructed model, we simulated SPF with a cylinder representing imaginary screw. The safe optimal tear drop view was defined as the one embracing a corridor with the largest diameter with the inferior tear drop line not below the acetabular line and the lateral tear drop line medial to the AIIS. The distance between the lateral border of the tear drop and AIIS was defined as tear drop index (TDI) to estimate the degree of rotation on the plane image. Tear drop ratio (TDR), the ratio of the distance between the tear drop center and the AIIS to TDI, was also devised for more intuitive application of our simulation in a real operation. Results All the maximum diameters and lengths were greater than 9 mm and 80 mm, respectively, which are the values of generally used screws for SPF at a TDI of 5 mm and 10 mm in both sexes. The TDRs were 3.40 ± 0.41 and 3.35 ± 0.26 in men and women, respectively, at a TDI of 5 mm. The TDRs were 2.26 ± 0.17 and 2.14 ± 0.12 in men and women, respectively, at a TDI of 10 mm. Conclusions The safe optimal tear drop view can be obtained with a TDR of 2.5 to 3 by rounding off the measured values for intuitive application in the actual surgical field.
