Title: Perceptions of COVID-19 among communities of Conakry (Guinea): a qualitative study exploring the context of the ANRS COV33 Coverage-Africa therapeutic trial
Authors: Marie-Hélène Doucet, Christine Timbo Songbono, Mélanie Plazy, Caroline Martin, Camille Fritzell, Mamadou Saliou Sow, Fodé Amara Traoré, Marie Jaspard, Armel Poda, Denis Malvy, Olivier Marcy, Alexandre Delamou, Joanna Orne-Gliemann
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-061715
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805824

Abstract:
Objectives To explore communities’ perceptions about COVID-19 in the context of the ANRS COV33 Coverage-Africa clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of treatments in preventing clinical worsening of COVID-19. Design Descriptive qualitative study using semistructured in-depth individual interviews conducted by telephone in French and Soussou between May and September 2021. Data were transcribed, translated in French when applicable and analysed with the thematic analysis method. Setting The eight neighbourhoods most affected by COVID-19 in Conakry’s urban context, capital of Guinea. Participants 4 community leaders acting as key informants—providing insights regarding population’s opinions—and six community members, who were exposed to an information session conducted as part of Coverage-Africa. Results According to participants, community members have heterogeneous viewpoints about COVID-19: it exists and is dangerous; it is benign (‘bad cold’); or it is fictitious (eg, government conspiracy). The fear of stigmatisation and social isolation of those sick or cured of COVID-19 was largely reported by participants, with illustrations of distressing situations for the victims. To avoid stigma, many patients seem to adopt strategies of discretion (eg, lying/hiding about the disease). Although community attitudes were reported to have evolved since the beginning of the epidemic, stigma remained a pervasive concern for many people. Conclusions Community perceptions about COVID-19 in Conakry may be partly explained by the Guinean context of Ebola history and of sociopolitical tensions. Stigmatisation of COVID+ people seems to be aimed at protecting others against contamination. However, social avoidance can greatly affect the morale of stigmatised people, especially in collectivist cultures like Guinea. Further investigating stigma, including its role on seeking COVID-19 screening and treatment services, and its consequences on mental health among affected/exposed people, would contribute to identifying improved prevention and care interventions in preparation for future health threats, and to promoting participation in health research. Trial registration number NCT04920838 (Pre-results stage).
