Title: Skull defect increases the tumor treating fields strength without detrimental thermogenic effect: A computational simulating research
Authors: Taian Jin, Zhangqi Dou, Yu Zhao, Biao Jiang, Jinghong Xu, Buyi Zhang, Boxing Wei, Fei Dong, Jianmin Zhang, Chongran Sun
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Medicine
DOI: 10.1002/cam4.5037
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9883554

Abstract:
Abstract Background Tumor treating fields (TTFields) is an FDA‐approved adjuvant therapy for glioblastoma. The distribution of an applied electric field has been shown to be governed by distinct tissue structures and electrical conductivity. Of all the tissues the skull plays a significant role in modifying the distribution of the electric field due to its large impedance. In this study, we studied how remodeling of the skull would affect the therapeutic outcome of TTFields, using a computational approach. Methods Head models were created from the head template ICBM152 and five realistic head models. The electric field distribution was simulated using the default TTFields array layout. To study the impact of the skull on the electric field, we compared three cases, namely, intact skull, defective skull, and insulating process, wherein a thin electrical insulating layer was added between the transducer and the hydrogel. The electric field strength and heating power were calculated using the FEM (finite element method). Results Removing the skull flap increased the average field strength at the tumor site, without increasing the field strength of “brain”. The ATVs of the supratentorial tumors were enhanced significantly. Meanwhile, the heating power of the gels increased, especially those overlapping the skull defect site. Insulation lightly decreased the electric field strength and significantly decreased the heating power in deep tumor models. Conclusion Our simulation results showed that a skull defect was beneficial for superficial tumors but had an adverse effect on deep tumors. Skull removal should be considered as an optional approach in future TTFields therapy to enhance its efficacy. An insulation process could be used as a joint option to reduce the thermogenic effect of skull defect. If excessive increase in heating power is observed in certain patients, insulating material could be used to mitigate overheating without sacrificing the therapeutic effect of TTFields. Of all the tissues the skull plays a significant role in modifying the distribution of the electric field due to its large impedance. In this study, influence of remodeling of the skull on the therapeutic outcome of TTFields have been studied.
