Title: Peri-implant diseases diagnosis, prognosis and dental implant monitoring: a narrative review of novel strategies and clinical impact
Authors: Rita Bornes, Javier Montero, André Correia, Tiago Marques, Nuno Rosa
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Oral Health
DOI: 10.1186/s12903-023-02896-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061972

Abstract:
Background The diagnosis of peri-implantar and periodontal relies mainly on a set of clinical measures and the evaluation of radiographic images. However, these clinical settings alone are not sufficient to determine, much less predict, periimplant bone loss or future implant failure. Early diagnosis of periimplant diseases and its rate of progress may be possible through biomarkers assessment. Once identified, biomarkers of peri-implant and periodontal tissue destruction may alert the clinicians before clinical signs show up. Therefore, it is important to consider developing chair-side diagnostic tests with specificity for a particular biomarker, indicating the current activity of the disease. Methods A search strategy was created at Pubmed and Web of Science to answer the question: “How the molecular point-of-care tests currently available can help in the early detection of peri-implant diseases and throws light on improvements in point of care diagnostics devices?” Results The PerioSafe® PRO DRS (dentognostics GmbH, Jena) and ImplantSafe® DR (dentognostics GmbH, Jena ORALyzer® test kits, already used clinically, can be a helpful adjunct tool in enhancing the diagnosis and prognosis of periodontal/peri-implantar diseases. With the advances of sensor technology, the biosensors can perform daily monitoring of dental implants or periodontal diseases, making contributions to personal healthcare and improve the current status quo of health management and human health. Conclusions Based on the findings, more emphasis is given to the role of biomarkers in diagnosing and monitoring periodontal and peri-implant diseases. By combining these strategies with traditional protocols, professionals could increase the accuracy of early detection of peri-implant and periodontal diseases, predicting disease progression, and monitoring of treatment outcomes. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12903-023-02896-1.
