Title: A machine-learning algorithm integrating baseline serum proteomic signatures predicts exercise responsiveness in overweight males with prediabetes
Authors: Candela Diaz-Canestro, Jiarui Chen, Yan Liu, Hao Han, Yao Wang, Eric Honoré, Chi-Ho Lee, Karen S.L. Lam, Michael Andrew Tse, Aimin Xu
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100944
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975321

Abstract:
Summary The molecular transducers conferring the benefits of chronic exercise in diabetes prevention remain to be comprehensively investigated. Herein, serum proteomic profiling of 688 inflammatory and metabolic biomarkers in 36 medication-naive overweight and obese men with prediabetes reveals hundreds of exercise-responsive proteins modulated by 12-week high-intensity interval exercise training, including regulators of metabolism, cardiovascular system, inflammation, and apoptosis. Strong associations are found between proteins involved in gastro-intestinal mucosal immunity and metabolic outcomes. Exercise-induced changes in trefoil factor 2 (TFF2) are associated with changes in insulin resistance and fasting insulin, whereas baseline levels of the pancreatic secretory granule membrane major glycoprotein GP2 are related to changes in fasting glucose and glucose tolerance. A hybrid set of 23 proteins including TFF2 are differentially altered in exercise responders and non-responders. Furthermore, a machine-learning algorithm integrating baseline proteomic signatures accurately predicts individualized metabolic responsiveness to exercise training. Graphical abstract Highlights • Exercise causes changes in hundreds of serum proteins in overweight individuals • Gut immunity-related proteins are associated with metabolic adaptations to exercise • Exercise responders and non-responders exhibit differential proteomic changes • Baseline protein signatures accurately predict the metabolic outcomes of exercise Diaz-Canestro et al. identify circulating proteins that predict the metabolic responsiveness to exercise training in individuals with prediabetes. These findings may facilitate the clinical implementation of personalized exercise interventions for diabetes prevention.
