Title: Effect of mydriatic eye drops (combined 0.8% tropicamide and 5% phenylephrine) on the measurements of corneal parameters using Pentacam
Authors: Pawan Prasher, Vipan K Vig, Brahmjot Singh, Rajan Sharma, Ashok Sharma
Year: 2023
Venue: Indian Journal of Ophthalmology
DOI: 10.4103/ijo.IJO_1175_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229920

Abstract:
Purpose: The purpose of the study is to investigate the effects of combined 0.8% tropicamide and 5% phenylephrine on the corneal parameters using Pentacam. Methods: The study was performed on 200 eyes of 100 adult patients visiting the ophthalmology clinic for evaluation of refractive errors or cataract screening. Mydriatic drops (Tropifirin; Java, India) containing tropicamide 0.8%, phenylephrine hydrochloride 5%, and chlorbutol 0.5% (as a preservative) were instilled into the eyes of the patients three times every 10 minutes. The Pentacam was repeated after 30 minutes. The measurement data of various corneal parameters from different Pentacam displays (keratometry, pachymetry, densitometry, and Zernike analysis) was manually compiled on an Excel spreadsheet and analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 20 software. Results: Analysis of Pentacam refractive maps revealed a statistically significant increase ( P < 0.05) in the values of radius peripheral (cornea front), pupil center Pachymetry, pachymetry apex, thinnest location Pachymetry, and cornea volume. However, pupil dilation did not affect the Q-value (asphericity). Analysis of the densitometry values revealed significant increase in all zones. Aberrations maps revealed statistically significant increase in the value of spherical aberration after the induction of mydriasis, but the values of Trefoil 0º, Trefoil 30º, Koma 90º, and Koma 0º were not affected significantly. We did not observe any untoward effect of the drug, except transient blurring of vision. Conclusion: The current study showed that routine mydriasis in the eye clinics leads to a significant increase in various corneal parameters including corneal pachymetry, cornea densitometry, and spherical aberration as measured by Pentacam, which can influence the decision-making in the management of various corneal diseases. The ophthalmologists should be aware of these issues and make adjustments in their surgical planning accordingly.
