Title: Relationships of Nurses with Midwives in Their Working Area and Associated Factors at Jimma Medical Center, Jimma, Southwest Ethiopia
Authors: Eneyew Melkamu Andualem, Desalew Tilahun Beyene, Tsiyon Mekoya Jemaneh, Diriba Wakjira Abose
Year: 2022
Venue: SAGE Open Nursing
DOI: 10.1177/23779608221146662
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806433

Abstract:
Background Good relationships among healthcare professionals in general and nurses and midwives, in particular, are vital in creating a smooth working environment and producing the best services from these two backbones of healthcare. Unfortunately, no studies have been conducted in Ethiopia that assesses the relationship between nurses and midwives in health facilities and the possible associated factors. Thus, this study aimed to assess the relationship between nurses and midwives in their working areas and factors associated with their relationships. Methods An institution-based cross-sectional study was conducted among 358 nurses at Jimma medical center, Jimma, Southwest Ethiopia. The sample size was calculated using a single-population proportion formula, and a simple random sampling technique was used to select individual study participants. Data were collected using a semistructured self-administered questionnaire prepared in the local language. Data were entered into epi-data version 4.2, and the analysis was conducted using the statistical packages for social sciences version 23. The level of significance was declared at a p -value less than .05 in the final multivariable logistic regression model. The results are presented in a figure, tables, frequencies and percentages, and narratives. Results This study indicated that 284 (79.60%) nurses had good relationships with midwives in their work area, and the remaining 74 (20.40%) had poor relationships. The rules and regulations of the hospital ( p = .009, adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 0.478, confidence interval [CI]: (0.274, 0.833)) and years of experience ( p = .039, AOR = 8.391, CI: (1.120, 9.845)) were found to have statistically significant associations with relationships between nurses and midwives. Conclusion It could be concluded that there is a relatively good relationship between nurses and midwives at Jimma medical center. Although there is a good relationship, it is vital to make nurses aware of the importance of good relationships. Enabling hospital rules and regulations to be helpful in fostering relationships between nurses and midwives and working with nurses with few years of experience to develop good relationships with midwives is recommended.
