Title: Molecular mechanism and energetics of coupling between substrate binding and product release in the F 1 -ATPase catalytic cycle
Authors: Michał Badocha, Miłosz Wieczór, Antoni Marciniak, Cyprian Kleist, Helmut Grubmüller, Jacek Czub
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215650120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974484

Abstract:
Significance ATP synthase is the main enzyme responsible for the production of ATP, the “universal energy currency,” in most bacterial and eukaryotic species. This nanosized, threefold-symmetric engine achieves outstanding efficiency and high turnover by coupling rotary movement of its γ -shaft subunit to conformational transitions within the nucleotide-binding β subunits. To avoid energy dissipation without compromising the turnover rate, the sequence of events in the catalytic cycle must be fine-tuned so that upon release, energy is immediately stored as mechanical strain or electrostatic interactions. Here, we demonstrate how the enzyme achieves this by capturing the free energy of ADP binding to one β subunit and using it to drive the energetically costly release of ATP from the neighboring β subunit. F 1 -ATPase is a motor protein that couples the rotation of its rotary γ subunit with ATP synthesis or hydrolysis. Single-molecule experiments indicate that nucleotide binding and release events occur almost simultaneously during the synthesis cycle, allowing the energy gain due to spontaneous binding of ADP to one catalytic β subunit to be directly harnessed for driving the release of ATP from another rather than being dissipated as heat. Here, we examine the unknown mechanism of this coupling that is critical for an exceptionally high mechanochemical efficiency of F 1 -ATPase by means of all-atom free-energy simulations. We find that nondissipative and kinetically fast progression of the motor in the synthesis direction requires a concerted conformational change involving the closure of the ADP-binding β subunit followed by the gradual opening of the ATP-releasing β subunit over the course of the 30 to 40° rotary substep of the γ subunit. This rotary substep, preceding the ATP-dependent metastable state, allows for the recovery of a large portion of the ADP binding energy in the conformation of ATP-bound β that gradually adopts the low-affinity conformation, captured also by the recent cryo-EM structure of this elusive state. The release of ATP from this nearly open conformation leads to its further opening, which enables the progression of the motor to the next catalytic metastable state. Our simulations explain this energy conversion mechanism in terms of intersubunit and ligand–protein interactions.
