Title: The secondary bile acid isoursodeoxycholate correlates with post-prandial lipemia, inflammation, and appetite and changes post-bariatric surgery
Authors: Panayiotis Louca, Abraham S. Meijnikman, Ana Nogal, Francesco Asnicar, Ilias Attaye, Amrita Vijay, Afroditi Kouraki, Alessia Visconti, Kari Wong, Sarah E. Berry, Emily R. Leeming, Olatz Mompeo, Francesca Tettamanzi, Andrei-Florin Baleanu, Mario Falchi, George Hadjigeorgiou, Jonathan Wolf, Yair I.Z. Acherman, Arnold W. Van de Laar, Victor E.A. Gerdes, Gregory A. Michelotti, Paul W. Franks, Nicola Segata, Massimo Mangino, Tim D. Spector, William J. Bulsiewicz, Max Nieuwdorp, Ana M. Valdes, Cristina Menni
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100993
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140478

Abstract:
Summary Primary and secondary bile acids (BAs) influence metabolism and inflammation, and the gut microbiome modulates levels of BAs. We systematically explore the host genetic, gut microbial, and habitual dietary contribution to a panel of 19 serum and 15 stool BAs in two population-based cohorts (TwinsUK, n = 2,382; ZOE PREDICT-1, n = 327) and assess changes post-bariatric surgery and after nutritional interventions. We report that BAs have a moderately heritable genetic component, and the gut microbiome accurately predicts their levels in serum and stool. The secondary BA isoursodeoxycholate (isoUDCA) can be explained mostly by gut microbes (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUC] = ∼80%) and associates with post-prandial lipemia and inflammation (GlycA). Furthermore, circulating isoUDCA decreases significantly 1 year after bariatric surgery (β = −0.72, p = 1 × 10 −5 ) and in response to fiber supplementation (β = −0.37, p < 0.03) but not omega-3 supplementation. In healthy individuals, isoUDCA fasting levels correlate with pre-meal appetite (p < 1 × 10 −4 ). Our findings indicate an important role for isoUDCA in lipid metabolism, appetite, and, potentially, cardiometabolic risk. Graphical abstract Highlights • Levels of the secondary bile acid isoUDCA are determined by the gut microbiome • isoUDCA levels associate with higher post-prandial lipemia and fasting appetite • Higher isoUDCA levels correlate with worse liver function enzyme values • isoUDCA levels decrease post-bariatric surgery and after fiber supplementation Weight-independent effects of bariatric surgery on metabolism are attributed to changes in bile acids and the gut microbiome. The results of Louca et al. suggest that isoUDCA levels are linked to hypertriglyceridaemia and increased appetite. Reduction in its levels may mediate increased satiety and improved lipemic control post-bariatric surgery.
