Title: Research on the Influence of the Allogeneic Bone Graft in Postoperative Recovery After MOWHTO: A Retrospective Study
Authors: Rui Zhong, Gang Yu, Yingming Wang, Chao Fang, Shuai Lu, Zhilin Liu, Jingyu Gao, Chengyuan Yan, Qichun Zhao
Year: 2023
Venue: Therapeutics and Clinical Risk Management
DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S400354
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974733

Abstract:
Purpose To compare the effects of an allogeneic bone graft and a non-filled bone graft on the rate of osteotomy gap union in medial opening wedge high tibial osteotomy (MOWHTO) with an opening width less than 10 mm. Methods A total of 65 patients undergoing MOWHTO between January 2018 and December 2020 were enrolled in this retrospective study. The patients were divided into two groups: the allograft group (MOWHTO with allogeneic bone grafting, 30 patients) and the non-filling group (MOWHTO without bone void fillers, 35 patients). The clinical outcomes, including the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index (WOMAC), Lysholm score, and post-operative complications, were compared. The radiographic evaluation included changes in hip–knee–ankle angle (HKA), medial proximal tibial angle (MPTA), femorotibial angle (FTA), and weight-bearing line ratio (WBLR) at pre-operation, at two-day post-operation, and the last follow-up. Radiographs were obtained at three, six and twelve months post-surgery, and at the time of the last follow-up to assess the fill area of the osteotomy gap. The union rate of the osteotomy gap was calculated and compared, and risk factors that may affect the rate of osteotomy gap union were also discussed. Results The rate of osteotomy gap union at 3 and 6 months after the operation in the allograft group was significantly higher compared with the non-filling group (all P<0.05), while no significant difference was found after the 1-year post-operative and at the last follow-up. Also, the WOMAC and Lysholm scores of the allograft group were significantly higher than those of the non-filling group (all P<0.05), and there was no significant difference between the two groups at the last follow-up. Conclusion Filling the gaps with the allograft bones may accelerate the union of osteotomy gap, improve clinical outcomes, and have important implications for patient rehabilitation in the early post-operative course. Bone grafting did not affect the final rate of osteotomy gap union and the clinical score of patients.
