Title: Systematic Evaluation of Spinal Cord Injury Animal Models in the Field of Biomaterials
Authors: Kest Verstappen, René Aquarius, Alexey Klymov, Kimberley E. Wever, Lyan Damveld, Sander C. G. Leeuwenburgh, Ronald H. M. A. Bartels, Carlijn R. Hooijmans, X. Frank Walboomers
Year: 2022
Venue: Tissue Engineering. Part B, Reviews
DOI: 10.1089/ten.teb.2021.0194
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805871

Abstract:
The large number of animal models used in spinal cord injury (SCI) research complicates the objective selection of the most appropriate model to investigate the efficacy of biomaterial-based therapies. This systematic review aims to identify a list of relevant animal models of SCI by evaluating the confirmation of SCI and animal survival in all published SCI models used in biomaterials research up until April 2021. A search in PubMed and Embase based on “spinal cord injury,” “animal models,” and “biomaterials” yielded 4606 papers, 393 of which were further evaluated. A total of 404 individual animal experiments were identified based on type of SCI, level of SCI, and the sex, species, and strain of the animals used. Finally, a total of 149 unique animal models were comparatively evaluated, which led to the generation of an evidence-based list of well-documented mid-thoracic rat models of SCI. These models were used most often, clearly confirmed SCI, and had relatively high survival rates, and therefore could serve as a future starting point for studying novel biomaterial-based therapies for SCI. Furthermore, the review discusses (1) the possible risk of bias in SCI animal models, (2) the difficulty in replication of such experiments due to frequent poor reporting of the methods and results, and (3) the clinical relevance of the currently utilized models. Systematic review registration : The study was prospectively registered in PROSPERO, registration number CRD42019141162. Impact statement Studies on biomaterial-based therapies within the field of spinal cord injury (SCI) research show a large inconsistency concerning the selection of animal models. This review goes beyond summarizing the existing gaps between experimental and clinical SCI by systematically evaluating all animal models used within this field. The models identified by this work were used most often, clearly confirmed SCI, and had a relatively high survival rate. This evidence-based list of well-documented animal models will serve as a practical guideline in future research on innovative biomaterial-based therapies for SCI.
