Title: Sublingual Microcirculation Specificity of Sickle Cell Patients: Morphology of the Microvascular Bed, Blood Rheology, and Local Hemodynamics
Authors: Sachi Sant, Etienne Gouraud, Camille Boisson, Elie Nader, Mounika Goparaju, Giovanna Cannas, Alexandra Gauthier, Philippe Joly, Céline Renoux, Salima Merazga, Christophe Hautier, Philippe Connes, Marianne Fenech
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Molecular Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/ijms24043621
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967909

Abstract:
Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) have poorly deformable red blood cells (RBC) that may impede blood flow into microcirculation. Very few studies have been able to directly visualize microcirculation in humans with SCD. Sublingual video microscopy was performed in eight healthy (HbAA genotype) and four sickle cell individuals (HbSS genotype). Their hematocrit, blood viscosity, red blood cell deformability, and aggregation were individually determined through blood sample collections. Their microcirculation morphology (vessel density and diameter) and microcirculation hemodynamics (local velocity, local viscosity, and local red blood cell deformability) were investigated. The De Backer score was higher (15.9 mm −1 ) in HbSS individuals compared to HbAA individuals (11.1 mm −1 ). RBC deformability, derived from their local hemodynamic condition, was lower in HbSS individuals compared to HbAA individuals for vessels < 20 μm. Despite the presence of more rigid RBCs in HbSS individuals, their lower hematocrit caused their viscosity to be lower in microcirculation compared to that of HbAA individuals. The shear stress for all the vessel diameters was not different between HbSS and HbAA individuals. The local velocity and shear rates tended to be higher in HbSS individuals than in HbAA individuals, notably so in the smallest vessels, which could limit RBC entrapment into microcirculation. Our study offered a novel approach to studying the pathophysiological mechanisms of SCD with new biological/physiological markers that could be useful for characterizing the disease activity.
