Title: Multicurvature viscous streaming: Flow topology and particle manipulation
Authors: Yashraj Bhosale, Giridar Vishwanathan, Gaurav Upadhyay, Tejaswin Parthasarathy, Gabriel Juarez, Mattia Gazzola
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2120538119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457255

Abstract:
Significance Viscous streaming, an inertial phenomenon, refers to the steady flows that emerge when a fluid oscillates around a localized microfeature. There, stresses are concentrated, remodeling surrounding flow over short time/length scales. The result is an efficient flow machinery to mix, transport, trap, or sort at the microscale. Nonetheless, classically, viscous streaming has been investigated for uniform-curvature bodies, for which only two distinct flow topologies exist, constraining its utility and scope. We combine predictive simulations and versatile experimental techniques to demonstrate how the rational design of multicurvature bodies unlocks a novel range of flow topologies, demonstrated here in compact and tunable microparticle filtration and separation devices. Overall, our technology expands viscous streaming potential, with opportunities in micromanufacturing, environment, health, and medicine. Viscous streaming refers to the rectified, steady flows that emerge when a liquid oscillates around an immersed microfeature. Relevant to microfluidics, the resulting local, strong inertial effects allow manipulation of fluid and particles effectively, within short time scales and compact footprints. Nonetheless, practically, viscous streaming has been stymied by a narrow set of achievable flow topologies, limiting scope and application. Here, by moving away from classically employed microfeatures of uniform curvature, we experimentally show how multicurvature designs, computationally obtained, give rise, instead, to rich flow repertoires. The potential utility of these flows is then illustrated in compact, robust, and tunable devices for enhanced manipulation, filtering, and separation of both synthetic and biological particles. Overall, our mixed computational/experimental approach expands the scope of viscous streaming application, with opportunities in manufacturing, environment, health, and medicine, from particle self-assembly to microplastics removal.
