Title: Chemical genetic screening identifies nalacin as an inhibitor of GH3 amido synthetase for auxin conjugation
Authors: Yinpeng Xie, Ying Zhu, Na Wang, Min Luo, Tsuyoshi Ota, Ruipan Guo, Ikuo Takahashi, Zongjun Yu, Yalikunjiang Aizezi, Linlin Zhang, Yan Yan, Yujie Zhang, Hongyu Bao, Yichuan Wang, Ziqiang Zhu, Ancheng C. Huang, Yunde Zhao, Tadao Asami, Hongda Huang, Hongwei Guo, Kai Jiang
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2209256119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9894192

Abstract:
Significance Plants rely on the homeostasis of auxin to regulate plant growth and development, as well as to respond to various environmental cues. GH3-mediated auxin conjugation pathway is indispensable to this process. Here, we identified nalacin, an artificial small molecule that regulates root architecture and hypocotyl growth via inhibiting IAA-conjugating GH3s. Notably, the analyses of crystal structure and the docking simulation reveal the molecular basis of nalacin for preferred inhibition of group II GH3 and indicate its broad bioactivity in vascular plants. This work provides a well-defined inhibitor of GH3s as a chemical tool for the studies on the biological roles of GH3s in various plants and potential application as a plant growth regulator in agriculture. Auxin inactivation is critical for plant growth and development. To develop plant growth regulators functioning in auxin inactivation pathway, we performed a phenotype-based chemical screen in Arabidopsis and identified a chemical, nalacin, that partially mimicked the effects of auxin. Genetic, pharmacological, and biochemical approaches demonstrated that nalacin exerts its auxin-like activities by inhibiting indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) conjugation that is mediated by Gretchen Hagen 3 (GH3) acyl acid amido synthetases. The crystal structure of Arabidopsis GH3.6 in complex with D4 (a derivative of nalacin) together with docking simulation analysis revealed the molecular basis of the inhibition of group II GH3 by nalacin. Sequence alignment analysis indicated broad bioactivities of nalacin and D4 as inhibitors of GH3s in vascular plants, which were confirmed, at least, in tomato and rice. In summary, our work identifies nalacin as a potent inhibitor of IAA conjugation mediated by group II GH3 that plays versatile roles in hormone-regulated plant development and has potential applications in both basic research and agriculture.
