Title: A phase Ib trial of mivavotinib (TAK-659), a dual SYK/FLT3 inhibitor, in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia
Authors: Keith W. Pratz, Jason Kaplan, Moshe Levy, Dale Bixby, Patrick W. Burke, Harry Erba, Trisha M. Wise-Draper, Gail J. Roboz, Nikolaos Papadantonakis, Trivikram Rajkhowa, Daniela Hernandez, Iwona Dobler, Richard C. Gregory, Cheryl Li, Shining Wang, Kate Stumpo, Karuppiah Kannan, Harry Miao, Mark Levis
Year: 2022
Venue: Haematologica
DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2022.281216
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9973464

Abstract:
Mivavotinib (TAK-659) is an investigational type 1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor with dual activity against spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3). We conducted a phase Ib study to investigate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of mivavotinib in patients with refractory and/or relapsed (R/R) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Both daily (QD) and twice daily (BID) dosing regimens were evaluated. A total of 43 patients were enrolled, and there were 5 complete responses (4 with incomplete count recovery). In the QD dosing regimen, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was not reached up to 160 mg QD per protocol; 140 mg QD was identified as the recommended phase II dose. In the BID dosing regimen, the MTD was 60 mg BID. Thirty patients (70%) experienced a bleeding event on study; the majority were grades 1 or 2, were resolved without mivavotinib modification, and were not considered related to study treatment. Eleven patients (26%) experienced grade ≥3 bleeding events, which were observed most frequently with the 80 mg BID dose. We conducted platelet aggregation studies to investigate the potential role of mivavotinib-mediated SYK inhibition on platelet function. The bleeding events observed may have been the result of several confounding factors, including AML disease status, associated thrombocytopenia, and high doses of mivavotinib. Overall, these findings indicate that the activity of mivavotinib in R/R AML is modest. Furthermore, any future clinical investigation of this agent should be undertaken with caution, particularly in thrombocytopenic patients, due to the potential bleeding risk of SYK inhibition. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02323113 .
