Title: Effects of adaptation diet and exogenous enzymes on true metabolizable energy and cecal microbial ecology, short-chain fatty acid profile, and enzyme activity in roosters fed barley and rye diets
Authors: A.G. Anderson, M.R. Bedford, C.M. Parsons
Year: 2023
Venue: Poultry Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2023.102768
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232848

Abstract:
Three experiments evaluated effects of adaptation diet and exogenous β-glucanase and xylanase on TME n of barley and rye. Single Comb White Leghorn roosters were fed adaptation diets based on corn/soybean meal ( SBM ), barley/SBM with and without β-glucanase, or rye/corn/SBM with and without xylanase for 4 wk. In Experiments 1 and 2, after the adaptation period, TME n was determined using a 48 h precision-fed rooster assay for 100% barley or 100% rye diets with or without β-glucanase or xylanase, respectively. Experiment 3 consisted only of feeding adaptation diets for 4 wk. Cecal samples were collected at the end of experiments for microbial ecology, short-chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) profiles, and enzyme activity analyses. In Experiments 1 and 2, β-glucanase increased ( P < 0.05) TME n of barley, and there was no significant effect of adaptation diet on TME n values. Total cecal Eubacteria and Ruminococcaceae were decreased ( P < 0.05) and Escherichia coli were increased ( P < 0.05) at the end of the TME n assay compared with the end of the adaptation period (with no TME n assay). There was a large decrease ( P < 0.05) for most cecal SCFA at the end of the TME n assay compared with the end of the adaptation period. Both cecal β-glucanase and xylanase activity were increased for birds fed adaptation diets containing the respective enzyme. In Experiment 3, there were no consistent effects of adaptation diet on cecal microbial profiles or SCFA but cecal β-glucanase activity was increased ( P < 0.05) by exogenous β-glucanase for barley and cecal xylanase activity was increased ( P < 0.05) by exogenous xylanase for rye. Overall, the results indicated that TME n of barley was increased by exogenous β-glucanase, adaptation diet did not significantly influence the TME n response to the dietary enzymes, and cecal fermentation (based on cecal SCFA) was greatly reduced by the TME n assay. Cecal β-glucanase and xylanase activity, however, were often increased by feeding high barley and high rye diets containing exogenous enzymes.
