Title: A Discrepancy: Calcium Channel Blockers Are Effective for the Treatment of Hypertensive Left Ventricular Hypertrophy but Not as Effective for Prevention of Heart Failure
Authors: Goran Koracevic, Zoran Perisic, Maja Stanojkovic, Milovan Stojanovic, Milos Zdravkovic, Miloje Tomasevic, Dragan Djordjevic, Katarina Mladenovic, Maja Koracevic, Jelena Trkulja
Year: 2022
Venue: Medical Principles and Practice
DOI: 10.1159/000526792
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801368

Abstract:
Arterial hypertension (HTN) is important due to its high prevalence, morbidity, and mortality rates. Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are the first-line antihypertensive drugs. HTN can lead to heart failure (HF) by causing hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy (HTN LVH). CCBs are recommended for the treatment of HTN LVH. The aim of this study was to analyze the status of CCBs regarding (1) HTN LVH treatment and (2) capability to prevent HTN-induced HF in the guidelines. For this narrative review, the following databases were searched: Medline, Scopus, Science Direct, Springer, SAGE, Wiley, Oxford Journals, Cambridge, and Google Scholar. CCBs are effective antihypertensive drugs and a very good therapeutic option for HTN LVH as they can cause reverse LVH remodeling. Consequently, we may expect that CCBs would prevent HF. However, evidence suggests that CCBs confer less protection from HF than other first-line antihypertensive drugs. A negative inotropic action of nondihydropyridine CCBs may contribute to suboptimal protection against HF. This discrepancy is clinically relevant because CCBs are in one of the two recommended (single pill) combinations for the initial treatment of HTN. LVH is a strong risk factor for HF in HTN patients. When LVH arises, the risk of HF increases dramatically . CCBs are inferior to renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockers but still very effective in bringing about regression of HTN LVH; consequently, CCBs are expected to protect from HF. On the contrary, CCBs protect from HF less effectively than other first-line antihypertensive drugs. This discrepancy needs to be investigated further to improve clinical practice.
