Title: Bilateral versus unilateral erector spinae plane block for postoperative analgesia in laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a randomized controlled study
Authors: Sevim Cesur, Hadi Ufuk Y..r..ko..lu, Can Aksu, Alparslan Ku..
Year: 2023
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Anesthesiology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjane.2021.04.020
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801199

Abstract:
Introduction Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is the common surgical intervention for benign biliary diseases. Postoperative pain after LC remains as an important problem, with two components: somatic and visceral. Trocar entry incisions lead to somatic pain, while peritoneal distension with diaphragm irritation leads to visceral pain. Following its description by Forero et al., the erector spinae plane (ESP) block acquired considerable popularity among clinicians. This led to the use of ESP block for postoperative pain management for various operations. Materials and methods This study was conducted between January and June 2019. Patients aged between 18 and 65 years with an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I.ÇôII, scheduled for elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy were included in the study. All the patients received bilateral or unilateral ESP block at the T8 level preoperatively according to their groups. Results There was no significant difference between the groups in terms NRS scores either at rest or while coughing at any time interval except for postoperative 6 th hour ( p = 0.023). Morphine consumption was similar between the groups but was significantly lower in group B at 12 and 24 hours ( p = 0.044 and p = 0.022, respectively). Twelve patients in group A and three patients in group B had shoulder pain and this difference was statistically significant ( p = 0.011). Discussion In conclusion, bilateral ESP block provided more effective analgesia than unilateral ESP block in patients undergoing elective LC. Bilateral ESP block reduced the amount of opioid consumption and the incidence of postoperative shoulder pain.
