Title: Analysis of health-related, skill-related physical strength, and physique by blood pressure levels of Korean seniors
Authors: Aram Kim, Eunjung Kim, Seunghui Baek, Jieun Shin, Seungwook Choi
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0279264
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803284

Abstract:
In Korea, the prevalence rate of hypertension among people aged over 30 is on an upward trend, which increased from 26.2% in 2008 to 28.3% in 2018. This hovers above the global morbidity rate of hypertension. As hypertension is the cause of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular diseases, early treatment and management are critical. Also, while there has been numerous research conducted on exercise intervention, the number of studies done on hypertension and physical fitness falls far below. To identify the relationship between health and physical fitness depending on the blood pressure levels of Korean seniors, the physical fitness test results of the National Fitness Award 100 conducted in 2017 were used, and blood pressure level, physique, and physical fitness data of 17,110 elderly population aged above 65 were analyzed. IBM Statistics SPSS 25.0 was used to process the collected data. Due to the gender difference in blood pressure levels, physique, and physical strength, the analysis was conducted by each gender, and the analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed to identify the differences in physique and physical strength depending on the blood pressure level. Also, Tukey’s HDS test was conducted if such differences were found. All analyzes were tested at the significance level (α) of 0.05. As a result of comparing the physique factors by blood pressure level, only males showed a significant difference between groups in terms of height(p = .019), and higher blood pressure implied greater height. Also, for both genders, those with high blood pressure appeared to have greater body weight(p < .001), body fat percentage(p < .001), BMI(p < .001), waist circumference(p < .001), and waist-to-height ratio(p < .001),. In addition, as the result of comparing health-related physical strength and skill-related physical strength by blood pressure level, males showed a significant difference only in muscular strength(p = .026) and flexibility(p < .001), while females showed a significant difference between groups in terms of cardiovascular endurance(p < .001), muscular strength(p = .025), muscular endurance(p < .001), balance, and motor coordination except for flexibility. Holistically, males only showed a significant difference in muscular strength and flexibility while females appeared to have a significant difference between groups in all categories except flexibility, which can be considered that physical fitness factors influence the blood pressure of females more than males.
