Title: Black carbon aerosols over Indian Ocean have unique source fingerprint and optical characteristics during monsoon season
Authors: Krishnakant Budhavant, August Andersson, H. Holmstrand, S. K. Satheesh, Örjan Gustafsson
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2210005120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974478

Abstract:
Significance This study of the Indian Ocean summer period pins down an aerosol regime that is geographically and compositionally different than the more studied winter period. The Indian Ocean summer aerosol regime is of greater relevance for the regionally important monsoon system of South Asia. Combining chemical, isotope, and optical properties with air mass transport analysis, the study resolves compositional source regimes for this vast marine domain during 2013 to 2017 with implications for the monsoon buildup and also for ecosystems, agriculture, and global warming. The fraction fossil of BC is more variable yet significantly larger (~65%) compared to for BC in winter-time South Asian outflow. Combining carbon-14 with stable isotopes revealed that savanna-burning fires from Africa periodically account for half of BC loadings over the Indian Ocean. Effects of aerosols such as black carbon (BC) on climate and buildup of the monsoon over the Indian Ocean are insufficiently quantified. Uncertain contributions from various natural and anthropogenic sources impede our understanding. Here, we use observations over 5 y of BC and its isotopes at a remote island observatory in northern Indian Ocean to constrain loadings and sources during little-studied monsoon season. Carbon-14 data show a highly variable yet largely fossil (65 ± 15%) source mixture. Combining carbon-14 with carbon-13 reveals the impact of African savanna burning, which occasionally approach 50% (48 ± 9%) of the total BC loadings. The BC mass-absorption cross-section for this regime is 7.6 ± 2.6 m 2 /g, with higher values during savanna fire input. Taken together, the combustion sources, longevity, and optical properties of BC aerosols over summertime Indian Ocean are different than the more-studied winter aerosol, with implications for chemical transport and climate model simulations of the Indian monsoon.
