Title: Dermatology Life Quality Index in Patients with Psoriasis Treated with Biologic Versus Non-biologic Treatment in Malaysia: A Retrospective Cross-Sectional Study
Authors: Suganthy Robinson, Tang Min Moon, Tey Kwee Eng, Teoh Tze Yuen, Tang Jyh Jong, Latha Selvarajah, Tan Wooi Chiang, Teh Yeon Chiat, John Tiong, Harini Chinthapatla, Shu Kee Eng, Suganthi Thevarajah
Year: 2023
Venue: Drugs - Real World Outcomes
DOI: 10.1007/s40801-023-00359-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232398

Abstract:
Background Psoriasis imposes a substantial burden on patients’ social, emotional, physical, and family life. Although psoriasis has no complete cure, various treatments are available to control its symptoms and improve a patients’ quality of life. Objective We aimed to compare the effectiveness of biologic versus non-biologic treatments on health-related quality of life among patients with psoriasis in Malaysia. Methods This retrospective cross-sectional study evaluated data of adult patients diagnosed with psoriasis during 2007–18 from the Malaysian Psoriasis Registry. Baseline demographics, disease, and treatment characteristics were described. For a subset of patients treated with biologics and non-biologics who had baseline and 6-month follow-up data available, changes in the mean Dermatology Life Quality Index scores and the proportion of patients with a clinically relevant improvement (≥ 4 points) post-treatment were assessed. Results Overall, 15,238 adult patients with psoriasis from the Malaysian Psoriasis Registry were included in the analysis. Patients receiving biologics showed a statistically significant reduction in the mean Dermatology Life Quality Index scores after 6 months compared with those receiving non-biologic treatment (− 5.7 vs − 0.8%; p < 0.001). The proportion of patients who achieved a ≥ 4-point improvement in Dermatology Life Quality Index scores was approximately two times greater in the biologic-treated group versus the non-biologic-treated group (56.4 vs 27.7%). Conclusions Biologic treatment showed a greater reduction in the Dermatology Life Quality Index scores of patients with psoriasis versus non-biologic treatment. These results highlight the importance of early treatment with more efficacious treatment options, such as biologic therapies, to improve the overall health-related quality of life of patients with psoriasis.
