Title: Implications of estrogen and its receptors in colorectal carcinoma
Authors: Plabon Kumar Das, Joti Saha, Suja Pillai, Alfred K.‐Y. Lam, Vinod Gopalan, Farhadul Islam
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Medicine
DOI: 10.1002/cam4.5242
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9972078

Abstract:
Abstract Estrogens have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancer types, including colorectal carcinoma (CRC). Estrogen receptors such as ERα and ERβ activate intracellular signaling cascades followed by binding to estrogen, resulting in important changes in cellular behaviors. The nuclear estrogen receptors, i.e . ERβ and ERα are responsible for the genomic actions of estrogens, whereas the other receptor, such as G protein‐coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) regulates rapid non‐genomic actions, which lead to secondary gene expression changes in cells. ERβ, the predominant estrogen receptor expressed in both normal and non‐malignant colonic epithelium, has protective roles in colon carcinogenesis. ERβ may exert the anti‐tumor effect through selective activation of pro‐apoptotic signaling, increasing DNA repair, inhibiting expression of oncogenes, regulating cell cycle progression, and also by changing the micro‐RNA pool and DNA‐methylation. Thus, a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of estrogen and its receptors in CRC pathogenesis could provide a new horizon for effective therapeutic development. Furthermore, using synthetic or natural compounds as ER agonists may induce estrogen‐mediated anti‐cancer activities against colon cancer. In this study, we report the most recent pre‐clinical and experimental evidences related to ERs in CRC development. Also, we reviewed the actions of naturally occurring and synthetic compounds, which have a protective role against CRC development by acting as ER agonist. ERß, the predominant estrogen receptor expressed in both normal and non‐malignant colonic epithelium, has a protective role in colon carcinogenesis. ERß may exert the anti‐tumor effect through selective activation of pro‐apoptotic signaling, increasing DNA repair, inhibiting expression of oncogenes, regulating cell cycle progression, and also by changing the micro‐RNA pool and DNA‐methylation.
