Title: Vulval dermatoses (venereal and nonvenereal) among female patients presenting to a tertiary care hospital in North India
Authors: Karamjot Kaur, Manjit Kaur Mohi, Dimple Chopra, Rishu Sarangal, Jatinder Raj Singh Saini, Preeyati Chopra
Year: 2022
Venue: Indian Journal of Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS
DOI: 10.4103/ijstd.ijstd_18_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9891011

Abstract:
Background: The skin and mucosa of the vulva are different from the rest of the human body, as it is derived from all three embryological layers. It is more prone to dermatological diseases, both infectious and noninfectious. Aims and Objectives: Our study was a prospective descriptive study on female patients attending the skin outpatient department with complaints of vulval dermatoses. Our aim was to determine the prevalence of venereal and nonvenereal dermatoses (infectious and non-infectious) along with age-wise distribution of these in our area. Materials and Methods: All female patients presenting with visible skin lesions on the vulva from January 2019 to December 2019 were included in this study. Various diagnostic tests such as Gram staining, Tzanck smear, KOH mount, herpes simplex virus serology, and skin biopsy were performed wherever necessary. Observations and Results: The study included 520 patients in whom 525 lesions were identified. These were grouped under venereal and non-venereal dermatoses. Nonvenereal dermatoses were further grouped under infectious and non-infectious conditions. Maximum patients were in the age group of 21–40 years (50.19%). The most common dermatoses were non-venereal infections, seen in 220 (42.30%) patients followed by non-venereal, non-infectious dermatoses seen in 177 (34.04%) patients whereas venereal dermatoses were seen in 128 (24.61%) patients. Conclusion: Most of the patients were in the reproductive age group, and the prevalence of infectious dermatoses both venereal and non-venereal was much more than that of non-infectious conditions affecting the vulval skin as per our study.
