Title: Uterine artery embolisation: fertility, adenomyosis and size – what is the evidence?
Authors: Leto Mailli, Shyamal Patel, Raj Das, Joo Young Chun, Seyed Renani, Sourav Das, Lakshmi Ratnam
Year: 2023
Venue: CVIR Endovascular
DOI: 10.1186/s42155-023-00353-2
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971423

Abstract:
Background Uterine artery embolisation is well established as a treatment for symptomatic fibroids, however, there remain some uncertainties. We have carried out a focused literature review on three particularly challenging aspects – post-procedure fertility, symptomatic adenomyosis and large volume fibroids and uteri, to enable operators to utilise evidence-based guidance in patient selection, consent, and management. Review Literature searches were performed of the PubMed/Medline, Google scholar, EMBASE and Cochrane databases. The outcomes of our analysis of studies which recorded fertility rates in women desiring pregnancy following UAE for symptomatic fibroids found an overall mean pregnancy rate of 39.4%, live birth rate of 69.2% and miscarriage rate of 22%. The major confounding factor was patient age with many studies including women over 40 years who already have lower fertility compared to younger cohorts. Miscarriage rates and pregnancy rates in the studies analysed were comparable to the age matched population. Treatment of pure adenomyosis and adenomyosis with co-existing uterine fibroids with UAE has been shown to produce symptomatic improvement with better outcomes in those with combined disease. Although the effectiveness is not as high as it is in pure fibroid disease, UAE provides a viable and safe alternative for patients seeking symptom relief and uterine preservation. Our analysis of studies assessing the outcomes of UAE in patients with large volume uteri and giant fibroids (> 10 cm) demonstrate no significant difference in major complication rates demonstrating that fibroid size should not be a contraindication to UAE. Conclusion Our findings suggest uterine artery embolisation can be offered to women desiring pregnancy with fertility and miscarriage rates comparable to that of the age-matched general population. It is also an effective therapeutic option for symptomatic adenomyosis as well as for the treatment of large fibroids > 10 cm in diameter. Caution is advised in those with uterine volumes greater than 1000cm 3 . It is however clear that the quality of evidence needs to be improved on with an emphasis on well-designed randomised controlled trials addressing all three areas and the consistent use of validated quality of life questionnaires for outcome assessment to enable effective comparison of outcomes in different studies. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s42155-023-00353-2.
