Title: Epigenome-wide analysis of maternal exposure to green space during gestation and cord blood DNA methylation in the ENVIR ON AGE cohort
Authors: Rossella Alfano, Esmée Bijnens, Sabine A S Langie, Tim S Nawrot, Brigitte Reimann, Kenneth Vanbrabant, Congrong Wang, Michelle Plusquin
Year: 2023
Venue: Environmental Research
DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2022.114828
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9760568

Abstract:
Background DNA methylation programming is sensitive to prenatal life environmental influences, but the impact of maternal exposure to green space on newborns DNA methylation has not been studied yet. Methods We conducted a meta-epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) of maternal exposure to green space during gestation with cord blood DNA methylation in two subsets of the ENVIR ON AGE cohort (N = 538). Cord blood DNA methylation was measured by Illumina HumanMethylation 450K in one subset (N = 189) and EPICarray in another (N = 349). High (vegetation height>3 m (m)), low (vegetation height<3 m) and total (including both) high-resolution green space exposures during pregnancy were estimated within 100 m and 1000 m distance around maternal residence. In each subset, we sought cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) sites via linear mixed models adjusted on newborns' sex, ethnicity, gestational age, season at delivery, sampling day, maternal parity, age, smoking, education, and estimated blood cell proportions. EWASs results were meta-analysed via fixed-effects meta-analyses. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified via ENmix-combp and DMRcate algorithms. Sensitivity analyses were additionally adjusted on PM 2.5 , distance to major roads, urbanicity and neighborhood income. In the 450K subset, cord blood expression of differentially methylated genes was measured by Agilent microarrays and associated with green space. Results 147 DMRs were identified, 85 of which were still significant upon adjustment for PM 2.5 , distance to major roads, urbanicity and neighborhood income, including HLA-DRB5, RPTOR, KCNQ1DN, A1BG-AS1, HTR2A, ZNF27 4, COL11A1 and PRSS36 DMRs. One CpG reached genome-wide significance, while 54 CpGs were suggestive significant (p-values<1e-05). Among them, a CpG, hypermethylated with 100 m buffer total green space, was annotated to PAQR9, whose expression decreased with 1000 m buffer low green space (p-value = 1.45e-05). Conclusions Our results demonstrate that maternal exposure to green space during pregnancy is associated with cord blood DNA methylation, mainly at loci organized in regions, in genes playing important roles in neurological development (e.g. , HTR2A ). Highlights • The impact of maternal exposure to green space on newborns DNA methylation has not been studied yet. • We lead the first EWAS of green space in pregnancy and cord blood DNA methylation. • 147 DMRs were found differentially methylated in the meta-EWASs. • 85 DMRs were significant after adjustment for gestational exposure to air pollution. • A DMP (p < 1-e05) was located on PAQR9 , whose expression decreased with green space.
