Title: Risk Factors Associated with Intraoperative Iatrogenic Fracture in Patients Undergoing Intramedullary Nailing for Atypical Femoral Fractures with Marked Anterior and Lateral Bowing
Authors: Yong Bum Joo, Yoo Sun Jeon, Woo Yong Lee, Hyung Jin Chung
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59040735
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10143868

Abstract:
Background and objectives : Iatrogenic fractures are potential complications during intramedullary (IM) nailing for atypical femoral fractures (AFFs). The risk factors associated with iatrogenic fractures remain unclear, although excessive femoral bowing and osteoporosis are hypothesized to be contributing factors. The present study aimed to determine the risk factors for the occurrence of iatrogenic fractures during IM nailing in patients with AFFs. Materials and Methods : This retrospective cross-sectional study evaluated 95 patients with AFF (all female; age range: 49–87 years) who underwent IM nailing between June 2008 and December 2017. The patients were divided into two groups: Group I (with iatrogenic fracture: n = 20) and Group II (without iatrogenic fracture: n = 75). Background characteristics were retrieved from medical records and radiographic measurements were obtained. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to identify risk factors for the occurrence of intraoperative iatrogenic fractures. Receiver operating curve (ROC) analysis was conducted to determine a cut-off value for the prediction of iatrogenic fracture occurrence. Results : Iatrogenic fractures occurred in 20 (21.1%) patients. The two groups exhibited no significant differences regarding age and other background characteristics. Group I exhibited significantly lower mean femoral bone mineral density (BMD) and significantly greater mean lateral and anterior femoral bowing angles than Group II (all p < 0.05). There were no significant differences in AFF location, nonunion, and IM nail diameter, length, or nail entry point between the two groups. In the univariate analysis, femoral BMD and lateral bowing of the femur differed significantly between the two groups. On multivariate analysis, only lateral bowing of the femur remained significantly associated with iatrogenic fracture occurrence. The ROC analysis determined a cut-off value of 9.3° in lateral bowing of the femur for prediction of iatrogenic fracture occurrence during IM nailing for AFF treatment. Conclusions : The lateral bowing angle of the femur is an important predictive factor for intraoperative iatrogenic fracture occurrence in patients undergoing IM nailing for AFF treatment.
