Title: Curvature gradient drives polarized tissue flow in the Drosophila embryo
Authors: Emily W. Gehrels, Bandan Chakrabortty, Marc-Eric Perrin, Matthias Merkel, Thomas Lecuit
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2214205120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9963527

Abstract:
Significance Much is known about how genetic prepatterning of the embryo defines the initial instructions for morphogenesis, but how these instructions are deployed in a specific mechanical and geometrical environment is unknown. In our manuscript, we use Drosophila embryos to explore how genetics, mechanics, and geometry interact to drive polarized (directional) tissue flow. Through a combination of experimental and modeling approaches, we show that previously proposed mechanisms cannot account for the tissue flows observed during the early stages of Drosophila morphogenesis. Instead, we reveal a mechanism whereby polarized flows arise from the interaction between myosin-driven tissue contraction and the curvature of the tissue imposed by the shape of the egg. Tissue flow during morphogenesis is commonly driven by local constriction of cell cortices, which is caused by the activation of actomyosin contractility. This can lead to long-range flows due to tissue viscosity. However, in the absence of cell-intrinsic polarized forces or polarity in forces external to the tissue, these flows must be symmetric and centered around the region of contraction. Polarized tissue flows have been previously demonstrated to arise from the coupling of such contractile flows to points of increased friction or adhesion to external structures. However, we show with experiments and modeling that the onset of polarized tissue flow in early Drosophila morphogenesis occurs independent of adhesion and is instead driven by a geometric coupling of apical actomyosin contractility to tissue curvature. Particularly, the onset of polarized flow is driven by a mismatch between the position of apical myosin activation and the position of peak curvature at the posterior pole of the embryo. Our work demonstrates how genetic and geometric information inherited from the mother interact to create polarized flow during embryo morphogenesis.
