Title: Effectiveness of interprofessional communication skills training for oncology teams: study protocol for a three-arm cluster randomised trial (KommRhein Interpro)
Authors: Andre Karger, Andrea Petermann-Meyer, Frank Vitinius, Franziska Geiser, Daria Kraus, Luisa Ernsten, Antonia J Mayers, Christian Heuser, Kati Hiltrop, Rebecca Bremen, Ambra Marx, Nicole Ernstmann
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-062073
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806046

Abstract:
Introduction Patient–provider communication is an important factor influencing the quality of care in oncology. The study examines the comparative effectiveness of a 10-hour interprofessional communication skills training (CST) programme for physicians and nurses in cancer centres. Methods and analysis KommRhein Interpro is a cluster-randomised trial sponsored by the German Cancer Aid (Deutsche Krebshilfe, DKH) and conducted at the cancer centres of the university hospitals of Aachen, Bonn, Cologne and Düsseldorf. Thirty oncology teams of four cancer centres are randomly assigned to three study arms, providing healthcare professionals with either (a) only written information on patient-centred communication or (b) written information plus CST for physicians or (c) written information plus interprofessional CST for physicians and nurses. For summative evaluation, standardised surveys from three measurement points for patients (T0pat: study enrollment; T1pat: after discharge; T2pat: 3 months’ follow-up) and two measurement points for physicians and nurses (T0hcp: before the intervention; T1hcp: after the intervention) are used. N=1320 valid patient cases are needed for data evaluation. The primary endpoint is fear of progression in patients with cancer after discharge. Data will be analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle using a mixed model for repeated measurement. Secondary outcome is the providers’ self-efficacy in patient centeredness. Individual confounders and possible moderating effects of organisational factors will be considered. Secondary analysis will be performed by means of multilevel analysis and structural equation modelling. Ethics and dissemination A vote of approval has been obtained from the ethics committees of the medical faculties of RWTH Aachen University (EK325/20), University of Bonn (391/20), University of Cologne (20–1332) and Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf (2019–796). Data protection regulations are adhered to for all processed data. The conduct of the study will be monitored. Dissemination strategies include a transfer workshop with cancer teams and distribution of the final study report to participants. Trial registration number DRKS00022563; DRKS (German Clinical Trials Register).
