Title: Development and first results of a national databank on care and treatment outcome after traumatic brain injury
Authors: Alexander Younsi, Andreas Unterberg, Ingo Marzi, Wolf-Ingo Steudel, Eberhard Uhl, Johannes Lemcke, Florian Berg, Mathias Woschek, Michaela Friedrich, Hans Clusmann, Hussam Aldin Hamou, Uwe Max Mauer, Magnus Scheer, Jürgen Meixensberger, Dirk Lindner, Kirsten Schmieder, Mortimer Gierthmuehlen, Christine Hoefer, Ulrike Nienaber, Marc Maegele, Yannik Bullinger, Stefan Wolf, Bedjan Behmanesh, Ralf Watzlawick, Michael Bender, Hans-Peter Howaldt, Veit Rohde, Levent Tanrikulu, Patrick Czorlich, Pedram Emami, Florian Wild, Majid Esmaeilzadeh, Anna Prajsnar-Borak, Raimund Firsching, Michael Luchtmann, Markus Holling, Martin Strowitzki, Felix Reuter, Miron Yousif, Rolf Lefering, Thomas Westermaier, Christian Stetter, Björn Sommer, Yannik Bullinger
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Trauma and Emergency Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00068-023-02260-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229710

Abstract:
Purpose In absence of comprehensive data collection on traumatic brain injury (TBI), the German Society for Neurosurgery (DGNC) and the German Society for Trauma Surgery (DGU) developed a TBI databank for German-speaking countries. Methods From 2016 to 2020, the TBI databank DGNC/DGU was implemented as a module of the TraumaRegister (TR) DGU and tested in a 15-month pilot phase. Since its official launch in 2021, patients from the TR-DGU (intermediate or intensive care unit admission via shock room) with TBI (AIS head ≥ 1) can be enrolled. A data set of > 300 clinical, imaging, and laboratory variables, harmonized with other international TBI data collection structures is documented, and the treatment outcome is evaluated after 6- and 12 months. Results For this analysis, 318 patients in the TBI databank could be included (median age 58 years; 71% men). Falls were the most common cause of injury (55%), and antithrombotic medication was frequent (28%). Severe or moderate TBI were only present in 55% of patients, while 45% suffered a mild injury. Nevertheless, intracranial pathologies were present in 95% of brain imaging with traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhages (76%) being the most common. Intracranial surgeries were performed in 42% of cases. In-hospital mortality after TBI was 21% and surviving patients could be discharged after a median hospital stay of 11 days. At the 6-and 12 months follow-up, a favorable outcome was achieved by 70% and 90% of the participating TBI patients, respectively. Compared to a European cohort of 2138 TBI patients treated in the ICU between 2014 and 2017, patients in the TBI databank were already older, frailer, fell more commonly at home. Conclusion Within five years, the TBI databank DGNC/DGU of the TR-DGU could be established and is since then prospectively enrolling TBI patients in German-speaking countries. With its large and harmonized data set and a 12-month follow-up, the TBI databank is a unique project in Europe, already allowing comparisons to other data collection structures and indicating a demographic change towards older and frailer TBI patients in Germany.
