Title: Association of immunological parameters with aortic dilatation in giant cell arteritis: a cross-sectional study
Authors: Philipp Jud, Nicolas Verheyen, Martin H. Stradner, Christian Dejaco, Dieter Szolar, René Thonhofer, Leyla Schweiger, Marianne Brodmann, Franz Hafner
Year: 2022
Venue: Rheumatology International
DOI: 10.1007/s00296-022-05186-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968266

Abstract:
Aortic dilatation (AD) occurs in up to 30% of patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA). Reliable biomarkers for AD development, however, are still absent. The aim of this exploratory study was to evaluate whether immunological parameters are associated with the occurrence of AD in GCA. Cross-sectional study on 20 GCA patients with AD, 20 GCA patients without AD, and 20 non-GCA controls without AD measuring leukocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), serum amyloid A (SAA), interferon (IFN)-α, IFN-γ, IFN-γ-induced protein 10 (IP-10), interleukin (IL) 5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-18, IL-1 receptor antagonist, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), L-selectin, P-selectin, and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (sICAM-1). AD was measured by aortic contrast-enhanced computed tomography and defined by enlargement of the aorta above population-based aortic diameters adjusted by age, gender, and body surface area. No significant differences were observed between GCA patients with AD and GCA patients without AD concerning levels of leukocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, CRP, ESR, SAA, IL-8, IL-18, PDGF, IP-10, selectins, and sICAM-1. Values of IFN-α, IFN-γ, IL-5, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-1 receptor antagonist, and TNF-α were all below the detection limits in more than 70% of subjects. Lymphocytes and CRP revealed positive correlations with the diameter of the thoracic descending aorta. Immunological parameters were not useful to conclude on the presence of AD in GCA. Further studies are required to test if CRP and lymphocytes may be useful to predict future development of AD in GCA.
