Title: Two year follow‐up and comparison of pelvic floor muscle electromyography after first vaginal delivery with and without episiotomy and its correlation with urinary incontinence: A prospective cohort study
Authors: Li Min, Dong Xudong, Lyu Qiubo, Li Pingping, Lyu Yuhan, Zhang Guifang, Gai Tianzi, Feng Qing, Yang Chunxue, Liang Yaxin
Year: 2022
Venue: Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica
DOI: 10.1111/aogs.14487
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889321

Abstract:
Abstract Introduction Few prospective studies have revealed the long‐term neuromuscular alterations of pelvic floor after vaginal delivery. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of episiotomy on the electrical activity of pelvic floor muscle 2 years following vaginal delivery, and explore the relation between surface electromyography (sEMG) amplitudes and urinary incontinence. Material and methods A total of 427 primiparous women with full‐term singleton vaginal delivery were included in the cohort and 362 with no further births within the 2 year follow‐up completed observations. Of these, 200 underwent episiotomy and 162 underwent nonepisiotomy. Clinical demographic characteristics, vaginal EMG variables and urinary incontinence‐specific questionnaire scores were collected at 6 weeks, 6, 12 and 24 months after childbirth, respectively. Primary outcomes were the comparison of sEMG values between the episiotomy and nonepisiotomy groups throughout 2 years. Secondary outcomes were the correlation between sEMG of both groups and the incidence and severity of urinary incontinence. Spearman's correlation analysis, Kruskal‐Wallis test and ANOVA with Bonferroni correction were used to analyze the variables. Results Amplitude of maximal fast and endurance contractions on sEMG in the episiotomy group was significantly lower than the nonepisiotomy counterpart. Such difference of sEMG persisted for a long period after birth: endurance contraction, 33.12 ± 8.92 vs 35.085 ± 9.98, p < 0.01 at 24 months, and fast contraction, 36.53 ± 8.87 vs 39.05 ± 9.98, p = 0.01 at 12‐month. Although there was no significant difference in incidence and severity of urinary incontinence between both groups, a negative correlation existed between EMG values of muscle contraction and urinary incontinence symptoms throughout. Conclusions Primiparous women delivered with episiotomy demonstrated lower contractile sEMG activity of pelvic floor muscle in the long term. The lower sEMG values of fast contraction were associated with urinary incontinence symptoms. Primiparous women delivered with episiotomy demonstrated lower contractile sEMG activity of PFM in a long term. The lower sEMG values of fast contraction were associated with urinary incontinence symptoms.
