Title: Early introduction of 3D modeling modules promotes the development of simulation skills in downstream biomedical engineering curricula
Authors: Mary S. Jia, Raj R. Rao, Mostafa Elsaadany
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Biological Engineering
DOI: 10.1186/s13036-023-00339-7
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10064548

Abstract:
Background Recent advancements in additive manufacturing have made 3D design a desirable skill in combating the historically slow development of biomedical products. Due to the broad applicability of additive manufacturing to biomedical engineering, 3D design and 3D printing are attractive educational tools for biomedical engineering students. However, due to the multidisciplinary nature of biomedical engineering, finding a suitable spot in the curriculum to teach students basic and application-based skills for 3D manufacturing is difficult. Furthermore, prior training in fundamental 3D design skills may be needed to support the use of application-based supplementary content. Results We designed a SolidWorks Simulations toolkit to complement a sophomore (2nd-year)-level Biomechanics course and distributed this assignment to students with and without prior training in 3D design delivered in an introductory biomedical engineering course. Using short videos, example-based problem solving, and step-by-step tutorials, students completed this as an extra-credit assignment and completed a survey gauging student opinion on SolidWorks and 3D design, confidence in each target skill, and the effectiveness of assignment delivery. The compilation of survey responses suggests that the assignment effectively increased positive responses in student opinion on interest in and likeliness to use SolidWorks in both groups. However, confidence in the target assignment skills was higher in the trained group and fewer problems occurred in operating SolidWorks for trained students. Further, analyzing the distribution of student grades with respect to survey responses suggests that responses had no relationship with initial class grade. Conclusion These data collectively indicate that prior training provided to the students had a positive impact on the effectiveness of the assignment although increases in student opinion on the utility of 3D design were observed in both trained and untrained students. Our work has generated and identified a useful educational supplement to enrich existing biomedical engineering course materials with practical skills. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13036-023-00339-7.
