Title: Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1: Potential Inflammatory Marker in Late-life Depression
Authors: Seung-Hoon Lee, Cheolmin Shin, Young-Hoon Ko, Moon-Soo Lee, Moon Ho Park, Chi-Un Pae, Ho-Kyoung Yoon, Changsu Han
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience
DOI: 10.9758/cpn.2023.21.1.147
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889913

Abstract:
Objective Although several previous studies have examined the association between late-life depression and blood adipokine levels, a marker of chronic inflammation, no studies have comprehensively considered the effects of metabolic syndrome, which is known to affect blood adipokine levels. This study examined blood adipokine levels in geriatric depression after adjusting for the effects of metabolic syndrome. Methods Participants were selected from the Ansan Geriatric Study (depression group [n = 76] and control group [n = 76]). Blood concentrations of four adipokines (adiponectin, resistin, neutrophil-gelatinase-associated lipocalin [NGAL], and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 [PAI-1]) were measured using immunoassays. The effects of blood adipokine concentration on the diagnosis of depression were analyzed using multivariate logistic regression to adjust for the effects of metabolic syndrome and potential confounding factors. Results When the effects of metabolic syndrome and potential confounding factors were adjusted, only PAI-1 could explain the diagnosis of depression among all the adipokines. The depression group showed a lower blood PAI-1 level than the control group. Adiponectin, resistin, and NGAL could not explain the diagnosis of depression when the effects of metabolic syndrome and potential confounding factors were adjusted. Conclusion This study suggests the possibility that the blood PAI-1 levels in clinically pathological late-life depression may show contrasting results to those with subclinical depressive symptoms. Additionally, considering that most previous studies have been conducted with pre-geriatric populations, the study suggests the possibility that geriatric depression may show inflammatory changes with patterns that are different from those of depression in the pre-geriatric population.
