Title: Tailoring diagnosis and treatment in symptomatic gallstone disease
Authors: Carmen S S Latenstein, Philip R de Reuver
Year: 2022
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac154
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364709

Abstract:
Abstract Background There is a lack of consensus in selecting patients who do or do not benefit from surgery when patients present with abdominal pain and gallbladder stones are present. This review aimed to give an overview of results from recent trials and available literature to improve treatment decisions in patients with uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis. Methods First, an overview of different symptom criteria for laparoscopic cholecystectomy in patients with uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis is given, based on national and international guidelines. Second, treatment outcomes (absence of biliary colic, pain-free state, biliary and surgical complications) are summarized, with data from three clinical trials. Finally, personal advice for treatment decisions in patients with uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis is provided, based on recent trials, the available literature, and expert opinion. Results This review describes different guidelines and criteria sets for uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis, provides an overview of outcomes after cholecystectomy, and advises on treatment decisions in patients with abdominal pain and gallbladder stones. After cholecystectomy, biliary colic is resolved in 95 per cent of patients. However, non-specific abdominal pain persists in 40 per cent. Irritable bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia significantly increase the risk of persistent pain. Age, previous abdominal surgery, baseline pain score on a visual analogue scale, pain characteristics, nausea, and heartburn are part of the SUCCESS criteria, and are associated with clinically relevant pain reduction after gallbladder removal. Conclusion The surgical community can now give more personalized advice on surgery to improve care for patients with abdominal pain and uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis. The diagnostic evaluation and treatment of patients with abdominal pain and gallstones are subject to change. The present review has shown that the surgical community can improve patient selection for cholecystectomy, and recent research has increased awareness of the negative impact of concomitant abdominal disorders on pain reduction after cholecystectomy.
