Title: Bioprocessing of tea oil fruit hull with acetic acid organosolv pretreatment in combination with alkaline H 2 O 2
Authors: Song Tang, Rukuan Liu, Fubao Fuelbiol Sun, Chunying Dong, Rui Wang, Zhongyuan Gao, Zhanying Zhang, Zhihong Xiao, Changzhu Li, Hui Li
Year: 2017
Venue: Biotechnology for Biofuels
DOI: 10.1186/s13068-017-0777-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5385081

Abstract:
Background As a natural renewable biomass, the tea oil fruit hull (TOFH) mainly consists of lignocellulose, together with some bioactive substances. Our earlier work constructed a two-stage solvent-based process, including one aqueous ethanol organosolv extraction and an atmospheric glycerol organosolv (AGO) pretreatment, for bioprocessing of the TOFH into diverse bioproducts. However, the AGO pretreatment is not as selective as expected in removing the lignin from TOFH, resulting in the limited delignification and simultaneously high cellulose loss. Results In this study, acetic acid organosolv (AAO) pretreatment was optimized with experimental design to fractionate the TOFH selectively. Alkaline hydrogen peroxide (AHP) pretreatment was used for further delignification. Results indicate that the AAO–AHP pretreatment had an extremely good selectivity at component fractionation, resulting in 92% delignification and 88% hemicellulose removal, with 87% cellulose retention. The pretreated substrate presented a remarkable enzymatic hydrolysis of 85% for 48 h at a low cellulase loading of 3 FPU/g dry mass. The hydrolyzability was correlated with the composition and structure of substrates by using scanning electron microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy, and X-ray diffraction. Conclusion The mild AAO–AHP pretreatment is an environmentally benign and advantageous scheme for biorefinery of the agroforestry biomass into value-added bioproducts. Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13068-017-0777-1) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
