Title: Supraspinatus fatty infiltration on MRI among older adults receiving physical therapy as initial management for clinically suspected rotator cuff tear: A pilot study
Authors: Derik L. Davis, Ranyah Almardawi, Omer A. Awan, Lawrence Y. Lo, Sagheer R. Ahmed, Shams Jubouri, Rao P. Gullapalli
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Clinical Imaging Science
DOI: 10.25259/JCIS_138_2022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805608

Abstract:
Objectives: Rotator cuff (RC) tear is common among adults ≥60 years, with supraspinatus tear most common. Intramuscular fatty infiltration (FI) on imaging is predictive of long-term outcomes following RC tear. Physical therapists routinely diagnose RC tear only by clinical examination since most do not order imaging studies. Thus, there is limited knowledge about FI in older populations receiving physical therapy (PT) for initial management of RC tear. The primary objective of our pilot study is to determine longitudinal differences in supraspinatus FI over time among older adults receiving PT (PT cohort) for initial management of RC tear relative to older adult volunteers (control cohort), and with secondary objective to evaluate longitudinal self-reported shoulder function over time. Material and Methods: This was a prospective longitudinal cohort study. Forty adults, 60–85 years, were enrolled at baseline; one follow-up visit at ≥6 months. Shoulder magnetic resonance imaging and clinical screening for Charlson comorbidity index (CCI), body mass index (BMI), and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon (ASES) score were completed at baseline and follow-up visits. Supraspinatus FI was evaluated by 6-point Dixon fat fraction and Goutallier grade. PT ( n = 15) and control ( n = 25) cohorts were stratified by supraspinatus status: Intact (no tear), partial-thickness tear (PTT), and full-thickness tear (FTT). Comparisons within cohort were performed by Kruskal–Wallis test and between cohorts by Mann–Whitney U-test. Interobserver reliability was performed for Dixon fat fraction and Goutallier grade. Results: PT cohort at baseline showed no difference for age, BMI, CCI, and ASES score; supraspinatus FI was highest for FTT by Goutallier grade (no tear, 0.5 ± 0.5; PTT, 1.1 ± 0.2; and FTT, 1.5 ± 0.5; P = 0.033) and by Dixon fat fraction (no tear, 4.6% ± 1.4%; PTT, 6.1% ± 1.9%; and FTT, 6.7% ± 2.5%; P = 0.430). Control cohort at baseline showed no difference for age, BMI, CCI, and ASES score; supraspinatus FI was highest for supraspinatus FTT by Dixon fat fraction (no tear, 5.8% ± 1.2%; PTT, 7.1% ± 6.3%; and FTT, 21.4% ± 10.4%; P = 0.034) and by Goutallier grade (no tear, 0.8 ± 0.5; PTT, 1.0 ± 0.6; and FTT, 2.4 ± 1.7; P = 0.141). No difference between similar PT and control cohort subgroups at baseline except no tear groups for ASES score (PT cohort, 58.9 ± 8.2; control cohort, 84.0 ± 21.9; P = 0.049). No differences were identified for Δ-Dixon fat fraction and Δ-Goutallier grade over time in the PT and control cohorts. PT cohort no tear subgroup showed significant improvement ( P = 0.042) for Δ-ASES score over time relative to PTT and FTT subgroups; no difference for Δ-ASES score over time in the control cohort. Conclusion: Full-thickness RC tear showed higher levels of FI relative to PTT or no tear at baseline. Our pilot study’s trend suggested that older adults receiving PT for initial management of RC tear have full-thickness RC tear for shorter duration based on relative lower levels of FI at baseline as compared to older adult volunteers with full-thickness RC tear. Our pilot study also found that older adults in the PT cohort with no tear had superior shoulder functional recovery by ASES score over time relative to full-thickness and PTTs.
