Title: LDL receptor related protein 1 is an adverse prognostic biomarker that correlates with stromal remodeling and macrophages infiltration in bladder cancer
Authors: YiHeng Du, YiZheng Liu, Jin Cao, Xiang Jiang, Yi Wang, Jiang Yu, Bo Wang, XiZhi Wang, BoXin Xue
Year: 2023
Venue: Frontiers in Immunology
DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1113756
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10157184

Abstract:
Introduction Bladder cancer (BLCA) is a highly heterogeneous disease influenced by the tumor microenvironment, which may affect patients' response to immune checkpoint blockade therapy. Therefore, identifying molecular markers and therapeutic targets to improve treatment is essential. In this study, we aimed to investigate the prognostic significance of LRP1 in BLCA. Methods We analyzed TCGA and IMvigor210 cohorts to investigate the relationship of LRP1 with BLCA prognosis. We utilized gene mutation analysis and enrichment to identify LRP1-associated mutated genes and biological processes. Deconvolution algorithms and single-cell analysis were used to understand the tumor-infiltrated cells and biological pathways associated with LRP1 expression. Immunohistochemistry was conducted to validate the bioinformatics analysis. Results Our study revealed that LRP1 was an independent risk factor for overall survival in BLCA patients and was associated with clinicopathological features and FGFR3 mutation frequency. Enrichment analysis demonstrated that LRP1 was involved in extracellular matrix remodeling and tumor metabolic processes. Furthermore, the ssGSEA algorithm revealed that LRP1 was positively correlated with the activities of tumor-associated pathways. Our study also found that high LRP1 expression impaired patients' responsiveness to ICB therapy in BLCA, which was predicted by TIDE prediction and validated by IMvigor210 cohort. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the expression of LRP1 in Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (CAFs) and macrophages in the tumor microenvironment of BLCA. Discussion Our study suggests that LRP1 may be a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in BLCA. Further research on LRP1 may improve BLCA precision medicine and enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
