Title: A randomized control study to assess the efficacy of the sphenopalatine ganglion block in patients with post dural puncture headache
Authors: Guruvayurappan Annushha Gayathri, Kanthan Karthik, Ravi Saravanan, Mesia D. Meshach, Anand Pushparani
Year: 2022
Venue: Saudi Journal of Anaesthesia
DOI: 10.4103/sja.sja_780_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9630679

Abstract:
Background: Post dural puncture headache (PDPH) delays discharge from hospital. We studied the efficacy of sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG) block, a novel technique in management of PDPH using 0.25% Ropivacaine. Methodology: Forty patients presenting with PDPH after urological procedures under spinal anaesthesia were randomized into two groups: Group C and Group S. Group C received conservative treatment with bed rest, adequate hydration and caffeine 200 mg 6 th hourly. Group S patients received SPG block (packing bilateral nostril for 10 minutes with 0.25% Ropivacaine). Inj Paracetamol 1 g IV was given as primary analgesic. Intravenous Diclofenac 75 mg was administered as rescue analgesic. Patients were monitored for 72 hours. Total analgesic requirement, time to attain adequate pain relief, headache pain score, patient satisfactory score were compared between the two groups. We compared the PDPH severity score for headache using 5-point scale method and patient satisfaction score using Likert-type scale. Results: Demographic data, onset of PDPH, needle size, intervention time were statistically insignificant. Total paracetamol consumption was significantly reduced in SPG group. Headache pain score was significantly low in Group S up to 54 hours. Patient satisfaction score was statistically better in Group S. Mean block onset time was 12 minutes. One patient in Group C required Epidural blood patch. Conclusion: SPG block is an effective alternative in managing patients with PDPH. The need for epidural blood patch is greatly reduced using SPG block. Procedural safety, immediate and sustained pain relief make it an evolving treatment modality for PDPH.
