Title: Morphology of the Antennal Sensilla of the Nymphal Instars and Adults in Notobitus meleagris (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Coreidae)
Authors: Wenli Zhu, Lin Yang, Jiankun Long, Zhimin Chang, Yinlin Mu, Zhicheng Zhou, Xiangsheng Chen
Year: 2023
Venue: Insects
DOI: 10.3390/insects14040351
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10143563

Abstract:
Simple Summary In this paper, we used scanning electron microscopy to describe the morphological types, number of sensilla, and their distributions on the antennae of each nymphal instar and adult of Notobitus meleagris (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Coreidae). The results show that there were eight subtypes of sensilla on the antennae of the nymphs and 11 subtypes of sensilla on the antennae of the adults. With the growth of instars, the type, quantity, and size of the sensilla gradually increased. Sexual dimorphism did not appear in the type of sensilla but existed in the length and diameter of some sensilla. In addition, we also discussed the functions of different types of sensilla through previous published studies, which will be helpful for further research on the behavioral and biological control of N. meleagris . Abstract The bamboo bug Notobitus meleagris (Fabricius, 1787) is a serious pest of bamboo shoots in China, India, Myanmar, Vietnam, and Singapore. The antennae of the nymphal instars and adults of N.meleagris are involved in communication among individuals and finding the host plants. In order to understand the morphology of antennal sensilla, their types, and the distribution of sensilla on the antennae of nymphal instars and adults in N. meleagris , we studied the morphology of antennal sensilla with a scanning electron microscope. The antennae of the nymphs and adults comprised the scape, pedicel, and two flagellomeres. Four types and eight subtypes of sensilla were identified in the nymphal instars (sensilla trichodea [St].1, St.2, St.3, sensilla basiconica [Sb].1, Sb.2, sensilla chaetica [Sc].1, Sc.2, sensilla coeloconica [Sco].1), whereas those of the adults had five types and eleven subtypes of sensilla (St.1, St.2, St.3, Sb.1, Sb.2, Sb.3, Sc.1, Sc.2, Sco.1, Sco.2, and sensilla campaniformia [Sca]). There are significant differences in the number, type, and size of the sensilla in different nymphal instars, which increases with the increase in nymphal instars. There was no sexual dimorphism observed in the adult sensilla; however, the length and diameter of St.3, Sb.2, and Sb.3 were sexually dimorphic. The potential functions of each sensillum were discussed based on the morphology and distribution of the antennal sensilla and were compared with similar published studies. Our results provide primary data for further research on the behavioral mechanism, green prevention, and control of N. meleagris.
