Title: Autonomous optimization of neuroprosthetic stimulation parameters that drive the motor cortex and spinal cord outputs in rats and monkeys
Authors: Marco Bonizzato, Rose Guay Hottin, Sandrine L. Côté, Elena Massai, Léo Choinière, Uzay Macar, Samuel Laferrière, Parikshat Sirpal, Stephan Quessy, Guillaume Lajoie, Marina Martinez, Numa Dancause
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101008
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140617

Abstract:
Summary Neural stimulation can alleviate paralysis and sensory deficits. Novel high-density neural interfaces can enable refined and multipronged neurostimulation interventions. To achieve this, it is essential to develop algorithmic frameworks capable of handling optimization in large parameter spaces. Here, we leveraged an algorithmic class, Gaussian-process (GP)-based Bayesian optimization (BO), to solve this problem. We show that GP-BO efficiently explores the neurostimulation space, outperforming other search strategies after testing only a fraction of the possible combinations. Through a series of real-time multi-dimensional neurostimulation experiments, we demonstrate optimization across diverse biological targets (brain, spinal cord), animal models (rats, non-human primates), in healthy subjects, and in neuroprosthetic intervention after injury, for both immediate and continual learning over multiple sessions. GP-BO can embed and improve “prior” expert/clinical knowledge to dramatically enhance its performance. These results advocate for broader establishment of learning agents as structural elements of neuroprosthetic design, enabling personalization and maximization of therapeutic effectiveness. Graphical abstract Highlights • Autonomous learning algorithm optimizes complex neuromodulation patterns in vivo • It enables “intelligent” neuroprostheses, immediately alleviating motor deficits • The application is robust to changes, e.g., due to plasticity or interface failure • Knowledge transfer to experts/clinicians is supported with an open-source framework Bonizzato et al. develop intelligent neuroprostheses leveraging a self-driving algorithm. It autonomously explores and selects the best parameters of stimulation delivered to the nervous system to evoke movements in real time in living subjects. The algorithm can rapidly solve high-dimensionality problems faced in clinical settings, increasing neuromodulation treatment time and efficacy.
