Title: A photoperiod-responsive protein compendium and conceptual proteome roadmap outline in maize grown in growth chambers with controlled conditions
Authors: You-Zhi Li, Xian-Wei Fan, Qiang Chen, Hao Zhong
Year: 2017
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5388471

Abstract:
Maize ( Zea mays L.) is one of the major staple food crops of the world. However, high photoperiod sensitivity, especially for tropical germplasms, impedes attempts to improve maize agronomical traits by integration of tropical and temperate maize germplasms. Physiological and phenotypic responses of maize to photoperiod have widely been investigated based on multi-site field observations; however, proteome-based responsive mechanisms under controlled photoperiod regimes, nutrient and moisture soils are not yet well understood. In the present study, we sequenced and analyzed six proteomes of tropically-adapted and photoperiod-sensitive M9 inbred line at the vegetative 3 stage and proteomes from tropically-adapted and photoperiod-sensitive Shuang M9 (SM9) inbred line at the vegetative-tasseling stage. All plants were grown in growth chambers with controlled soil and temperature and three photoperiod regimes, a short photoperiod (SP) of 10 h light/14 h dark, a control neutral photoperiod (NP) of 12 h light/12 h dark, and a long photoperiod (LP) of 16 h light/8 h dark for a daily cycle. We identified 4,395 proteins of which 401 and 425 differentially-expressed proteins (DPs) were found in abundance in M9 leaves and in SM9 leaves as per SP/LP vs. NP, respectively. Some DPs showed responses to both SP and LP while some only responded to either SP or LP, depending on M9 or SM9. Our study showed that the photoperiodic response pathway, circadian clock rhythm, and high light density/intensity crosstalk with each other, but apparently differ from dark signaling routes. Photoperiod response involves light-responsive or dark-responsive proteins or both. The DPs positioned on the signaling routes from photoperiod changes to RNA/DNA responses involve the mago nashi homolog and glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins. Moreover, the cell-to-cell movement of ZCN14 through plasmodesmata is likely blocked under a 16-h-light LP. Here, we propose a photoperiodic model based on our findings and those from previous studies.
