Title: A unique network of attack, defence and competence on the outer membrane of the periodontitis pathogen Tannerella forsythia †
Authors: Mirosław Książek, Theodoros Goulas, Danuta Mizgalska, Arturo Rodríguez-Banqueri, Ulrich Eckhard, Florian Veillard, Irena Waligórska, Małgorzata Benedyk-Machaczka, Alicja M. Sochaj-Gregorczyk, Mariusz Madej, Ida B. Thøgersen, Jan J. Enghild, Anna Cuppari, Joan L. Arolas, Iñaki de Diego, Mar López-Pelegrín, Irene Garcia-Ferrer, Tibisay Guevara, Vincent Dive, Marie-Louise Zani, Thierry Moreau, Jan Potempa, F. Xavier Gomis-Rüth
Year: 2022
Venue: Chemical Science
DOI: 10.1039/d2sc04166a
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890683

Abstract:
Periodontopathogenic Tannerella forsythia uniquely secretes six peptidases of disparate catalytic classes and families that operate as virulence factors during infection of the gums, the KLIKK-peptidases. Their coding genes are immediately downstream of novel ORFs encoding the 98–132 residue potempins (Pot) A, B1, B2, C, D and E. These are outer-membrane-anchored lipoproteins that specifically and potently inhibit the respective downstream peptidase through stable complexes that protect the outer membrane of T. forsythia , as shown in vivo . Remarkably, PotA also contributes to bacterial fitness in vivo and specifically inhibits matrix metallopeptidase (MMP) 12, a major defence component of oral macrophages, thus featuring a novel and highly-specific physiological MMP inhibitor. Information from 11 structures and high-confidence homology models showed that the potempins are distinct β-barrels with either a five-stranded OB-fold (PotA, PotC and PotD) or an eight-stranded up-and-down fold (PotE, PotB1 and PotB2), which are novel for peptidase inhibitors. Particular loops insert like wedges into the active-site cleft of the genetically-linked peptidases to specifically block them either via a new “bilobal” or the classic “standard” mechanism of inhibition. These results discover a unique, tightly-regulated proteolytic armamentarium for virulence and competence, the KLIKK-peptidase/potempin system. Periodontopathogenic Tannerella forsythia possesses the unique, tightly-regulated KLIKK-peptidase/potempin system in which six distinct metallo- and serine peptidases are specifically inhibited by cognate potempins (Pot) A, B1, B2, C, D and E.
