Title: Ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm in high-risk women
Authors: A Duncan, C Maslen, C Gibson, T Hartshorne, A Farooqi, A Saratzis, M J Bown
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab220
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8545265

Abstract:
Abstract Background Population-wide ultrasound screening programmes for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) for men have already been established in some countries. Women account for one third of aneurysm-related mortality and are four times more likely to experience an AAA rupture than men. Whole-population screening for AAA in women is unlikely to be clinically or economically effective. The aim of this study was to determine the outcomes of a targeted AAA screening programme for women at high risk of AAA. Method Women aged 65–74 years deemed at high risk of having an AAA (current smokers, ex-smokers, or with a history of coronary artery disease) were invited to attend ultrasound screening (July 2016 to March 2019) for AAA in the Female Aneurysm screening STudy (FAST). Primary outcomes were attendance for screening and prevalence of AAA. Biometric data, medical history, quality of life (QoL) and aortic diameter on ultrasound imaging were recorded prospectively. Results Some 6037 women were invited and 5200 attended screening (86.7 per cent). Fifteen AAAs larger than 29 mm were detected (prevalence 0.29 (95 per cent c.i. 0.18 to 0.48) per cent). Current smokers had the highest prevalence (0.83 (95 per cent c.i. 0.34 to 1.89) per cent) but lowest attendance (75.2 per cent). Three AAAs greater than 5.5 cm were identified and referred for consideration of surgical repair; one woman underwent repair. There was a significant reduction in patient-reported QoL scores following screening. Conclusion A low prevalence of AAA was detected in high-risk women, with lowest screening uptake in those at highest risk. Screening for AAA in high-risk women may not be beneficial. This a large empirical study of population screening for AAA in women with established cardiovascular risk factors. The key finding of this work is that screening high-risk women for AAA is not justified due to low disease prevalence. This is an important finding that will influence clinical practice, since current guidelines from the Society for Vascular Surgery, European Society for Vascular Surgery, and UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence all recommend screening for high-risk women.
