Title: Surgeon compassion may mitigate quality of life disparities associated with health literacy
Authors: Morgan J Hopp, Hahn Soe-Lin, Trevor M Lowe, Kristina M Chapple, James N Bogert, Jordan A Weinberg
Year: 2023
Venue: Trauma Surgery & Acute Care Open
DOI: 10.1136/tsaco-2022-001029
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890758

Abstract:
Objectives Patients with health literacy (HL) disparities are less likely to comprehend hospital discharge instructions and less satisfied with physician communication. In this prospective cohort study, we sought to examine the interaction of HL, physician communication, and quality of life after hospital discharge among postoperative emergency surgery and trauma patients. Methods Emergency surgery and trauma surgery patients were prospectively enrolled between December 2020 and December 2021 at an urban level 1 trauma center. Newest Vital Sign (NVS) instrument was used to measure HL during hospitalization. After discharge, patients were administered Revised Trauma Quality of Life (RT-QOL) and Interpersonal Processes of Care (IPC) instruments. An adjusted regression model was used to determine associations among NVS the emotional well-being subscale on the RT-QOL, and patient perception of physician compassion and respect on the IPC. Results 94 patients completed all instruments. HL was proficient (high HL) in 59.6% and less than proficient (low HL) in 40.4%. HL was positively associated with RT-QOL emotional well-being, r (94)=0.212, p=0.040. However, higher rating of surgeon compassion and respect on IPC moderated the relationship between HL and emotional well-being such that patients with low HL and high perception of physician compassion and respect had similar emotional well-being as the high HL group (p=0.042). Conclusion Favorable patient perception of surgeon compassion and respect was correlated with higher emotional well-being, independent of HL proficiency. Although the allocation of resources toward improving HL disparities remains warranted, improving patient perception of caregiver compassion during hospitalization may be a target of opportunity with respect to improving quality of life after hospital discharge. Level of evidence Level III.
