Title: Unique peptidic agonists of a juvenile hormone receptor with species-specific effects on insect development and reproduction
Authors: Sarka Tumova, Matej Milacek, Ivan Šnajdr, Magesh Muthu, Roman Tuma, David Reha, Pavel Jedlicka, Lenka Bittova, Adela Novotna, Pavel Majer, David Sedlak, Marek Jindra
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215541119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889882

Abstract:
Significance Synthetic mimics of the insect juvenile hormone (JH) exemplify biorational pesticides. Unique peptidic juvenoids with target-species specific effects, were discovered in the early 1970s. However, these promising compounds were abandoned with their mode of action never addressed. Our study shows that peptidic juvenoids act through the canonical JH receptor signaling to affect development and reproduction of the target insect. Our newly synthesized peptidic derivatives outperform established JH mimics by two orders of magnitude while retaining their target species selectivity. We further propose an advanced structural model for interaction of these highly potent agonists with the JH receptor. These results unveil the potential of peptidic juvenoids as agents for precisely targeted and sustainable insect control. Juvenile hormones (JHs) control insect metamorphosis and reproduction. JHs act through a receptor complex consisting of methoprene-tolerant (Met) and taiman (Tai) proteins to induce transcription of specific genes. Among chemically diverse synthetic JH mimics (juvenoids), some of which serve as insecticides, unique peptidic juvenoids stand out as being highly potent yet exquisitely selective to a specific family of true bugs. Their mode of action is unknown. Here we demonstrate that, like established JH receptor agonists, peptidic juvenoids act upon the JHR Met to halt metamorphosis in larvae of the linden bug, Pyrrhocoris apterus . Peptidic juvenoids induced ligand-dependent dimerization between Met and Tai proteins from P. apterus but, consistent with their selectivity, not from other insects. A cell-based split-luciferase system revealed that the Met–Tai complex assembled within minutes of agonist presence. To explore the potential of juvenoid peptides, we synthesized 120 new derivatives and tested them in Met–Tai interaction assays. While many substituents led to loss of activity, improved derivatives active at sub-nanomolar range outperformed hitherto existing peptidic and classical juvenoids including fenoxycarb. Their potency in inducing Met–Tai interaction corresponded with the capacity to block metamorphosis in P. apterus larvae and to stimulate oogenesis in reproductively arrested adult females. Molecular modeling demonstrated that the high potency correlates with high affinity. This is a result of malleability of the ligand-binding pocket of P. apterus Met that allows larger peptidic ligands to maximize their contact surface. Our data establish peptidic juvenoids as highly potent and species-selective novel JHR agonists.
