Title: Optimization of ‘on farm’ hydropriming conditions in wheat: Soaking time and water volume have interactive effects on seed performance
Authors: Hemender Tanwar, Virender Singh Mor, Sushma Sharma, Mujahid Khan, Axay Bhuker, Vikram Singh, Jitender Yadav, Sonali Sangwan, Jogender Singh, Shikha Yashveer, Kuldeep Singh
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0280962
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9888722

Abstract:
Seed priming is a simple and cost effective method to obtain a better plant stand under diverse environmental conditions. The current study was designed to determine the optimal priming duration and water volume for wheat seed. For this experiment, three wheat genotypes with distinct genetic and adaptive backgrounds were chosen. Seeds of each genotype were hydroprimed for 7 durations, i.e. 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 hours, in three different water volumes, i.e. half, equal, and double volume with respect to seed weight and then surface dried for 1 hour. The control was unprimed (dry) seed. The germination characteristics and seedling vigour potential of hydroprimed seeds were evaluated in the lab by recording several parameters such as germination percentage and speed, seedling growth, and vigour indices at two different temperature levels. The results showed that optimal duration for hydropriming of wheat seed is 12 hours with an equal volume with respect to original seed weight, closely followed by 8 hours with double volume. Reduction in seed performance was observed at 16 and 20 hours priming particularly at double volume treatment. Effect of temperature on seed germination showed improvement in seedling vigour at 25°C when compared to 20°C, although effect on germination percentage was non-significant. Volume of water and priming duration showed significant interactive effects demonstrating that a higher volume can give equivalent results at a shorter duration and vice versa. Another experiment was also conducted to compare the on-farm priming (surface dried seed) with conventional priming (seed re-dried to original moisture) taking 3 potential durations i.e. 8, 12 and 16 hours. Results revealed that both priming methods were statistically at par in terms of germination percentage, while, surface drying resulted in better seedling vigour and speed of germination.
