Title: Targeting neurotrophin and nitric oxide signaling to promote recovery and ameliorate neurogenic bladder dysfunction following spinal cord injury – Mechanistic concepts and clinical implications
Authors: A.J. Kanai, K.-E. Andersson, C.H. Fry, N. Yoshimura
Year: 2023
Venue: Continence (Amsterdam, Netherlands)
DOI: 10.1016/j.cont.2023.100703
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10310066

Abstract:
This review summarizes the presentations made to a workshop entitled “Targeting Neurotrophin and Nitric Oxide Signaling to Promote Recovery and Ameliorate Neurogenic Bladder Dysfunction following Spinal Cord Injury – Mechanistic Concepts and Clinical Implications” at the International Continence Society (ICS) 2022 Vienna Meeting. Spinal cord injury (SCI; T8-T9 contusion/transection) causes impaired mobility, neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO), detrusor sphincter dyssynergia (DSD) and subsequent decreased quality of life. This workshop discussed the potential of future therapeutic agents that manage the lesion and its consequences, in particular possibilities to reduce the lesion itself and manage pathophysiological changes to the lower urinary tract (LUT). Attenuation of the spinal cord lesion itself was discussed with respect to the potential of a trio of agents: LM11A-3, a p75 neurotrophin receptor modulator to counter activation of local apoptotic pathways; LM22B-10 to promote neuronal growth by targeting tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) receptors; and cinaciguat, a soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) activator as an agent promoting angiogenesis at the injury site. The workshop also discussed targets on the bladder to block selectivity sites associated with detrusor overactivity and poor urinary filling profiles, such as purinergic pathways controlling excess contractile activity and afferent signaling, as well as excess fibrosis. Finally, the importance of increased mechanosensitive signaling as a contributor to DSD was considered, as well as potential drug targets. Overall, an emphasis was placed on targets that help restore function and reduce pathological LUT consequences, rather than downregulate normal function.
