Title: To what extent are objectively measured mammographic imaging techniques associated with compression outcomes
Authors: Sue M Hudson, Louise S Wilkinson, Bianca L De Stavola, Isabel dos-Santos-Silva
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20230089
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10230394

Abstract:
Objective: To describe the association between objectively measurable imaging techniques and the resulting compression thickness and dose. Methods: The study included 80,495 routine screens from the South-West London Breast Screening Service between March 2013 and July 2017. Average compression force, paddle tilt and dose were calculated. The Volpara ® DensityTM algorithm was used to estimate pressure, breast volume and density. Linear regression models, using generalized estimating equations (GEEs) to account for clustering by practitioner, assessed the strength of the associations between the imaging compression outcomes, (thickness, dose) and imaging techniques (force, pressure and paddle tilt), adjusting for the subject’s characteristics (age, ethnicity, breast volume and percent mammographic density). Results: Fully adjusted linear regression models showed that compression thickness decreased by ~1 mm (~2% of mean thickness) for every 1daN increase in force and decreased by ~0.8 mm with an increase of 1 kPa of pressure (at median pressure). Increasing pressure above 15 kPa resulted in minimal reduction in thickness. Dose increased with increased force but decreased by ~1% of mean dose with every increase in 1 kPa of pressure. For 1 o increase in paddle tilt, the compression thickness increased by ~1.5 mm (~2.5%) and dose increased by ~2.5%, (Pt <0.001 in all cases). Conclusion: Differences in imaging technique are associated with imaging outcome measures (thickness and dose). A better understanding of the association between objective image acquisition parameters and tumour conspicuity could lead to clearer guidelines for practitioners. Advances in knowledge: Increased paddle tilt is associated with increased compression thickness and increased dose after adjustment for breast volume and force applied.
