Title: Elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor corrects monocyte microbicidal deficiency in cystic fibrosis
Authors: Luca Cavinato, Francesco R. Luly, Valentina Pastore, Daniele Chiappetta, Gloria Sangiorgi, Eva Ferrara, Pia Baiocchi, Giuseppe Mandarello, Giuseppe Cimino, Paola Del Porto, Fiorentina Ascenzioni
Year: 2023
Venue: The European Respiratory Journal
DOI: 10.1183/13993003.00725-2022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066567

Abstract:
Background Cystic fibrosis (CF), which is caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), is characterised by chronic bacterial lung infection and inflammation. In CF, monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages have been shown to display defective phagocytosis and antimicrobial activity against relevant lung pathogens, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Thus, we addressed the effect of CFTR triple modulator therapy (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI)) on the activity of CF monocytes against P. aeruginosa . Methods Monocytes from people with CF (PWCF) before and after 1 and 6 months of ETI therapy were isolated from blood and infected with P. aeruginosa to assess phagocytic activity and intracellular bacterial killing. The oxidative burst and interleukin-6 secretion were also determined. Monocytes from healthy controls were also included. Results Longitudinal analysis of the clinical parameters confirmed an improvement of lung function and lung microbiology by ETI. Both the phagocytic and microbicidal deficiencies of CF monocytes also improved significantly, although not completely. Furthermore, we measured an exuberant oxidative burst in CF monocytes before therapy, which was reduced considerably by ETI. This led to an improvement of reactive oxygen species-dependent bactericidal activity. Inflammatory response to bacterial stimuli was also lowered compared with pre-therapy. Conclusions PWCF on ETI therapy, in a real-life setting, in addition to clinical recovery, showed significant improvement in monocyte activity against P. aeruginosa , which may have contributed to the overall effect of ETI on pulmonary disease. This also suggests that CF monocyte dysfunctions may be specifically targeted to ameliorate lung function in CF. In people with cystic fibrosis, elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor ameliorates the antimicrobial activity of monocytes against Pseudomonas aeruginosa by lowering their exuberant oxidative burst, thus contributing to the improvement of lung disease http://bit.ly/3hL2Z11
