Title: Machine learning-assisted medium optimization revealed the discriminated strategies for improved production of the foreign and native metabolites
Authors: Honoka Aida, Keisuke Uchida, Motoki Nagai, Takamasa Hashizume, Shunsuke Masuo, Naoki Takaya, Bei-Wen Ying
Year: 2023
Venue: Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal
DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2023.04.020
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149329

Abstract:
The composition of medium components is crucial for achieving the best performance of synthetic construction in genetically engineered cells. Which and how medium components determine the performance, e.g., productivity, remain poorly investigated. To address the questions, a comparative survey with two genetically engineered Escherichia coli strains was performed. As a case study, the strains carried the synthetic pathways for producing the aromatic compounds of 4-aminophenylalanine (4APhe) or tyrosine (Tyr), common in the upstream but differentiated in the downstream metabolism. Bacterial growth and compound production were examined in hundreds of medium combinations that comprised 48 pure chemicals. The resultant data sets linking the medium composition to bacterial growth and production were subjected to machine learning for improved production. Intriguingly, the primary medium components determining the production of 4PheA and Tyr were differentiated, which were the initial resource (glucose) of the synthetic pathway and the inducer (IPTG) of the synthetic construction, respectively. Fine-tuning of the primary component significantly increased the yields of 4APhe and Tyr, indicating that a single component could be crucial for the performance of synthetic construction. Transcriptome analysis observed the local and global changes in gene expression for improved production of 4APhe and Tyr, respectively, revealing divergent metabolic strategies for producing the foreign and native metabolites. The study demonstrated that ML-assisted medium optimization could provide a novel point of view on how to make the synthetic construction meet the designed working principle and achieve the expected biological function. Graphical Abstract ga1
