Title: Targeting the E3 ligase NEDD4 as a novel therapeutic strategy for IGF1 signal pathway-driven gastric cancer
Authors: Ke Wang, Yanping Yu, Wei Wang, Yu Jiang, Yunlong Li, Xunliang Jiang, Yihuan Qiao, Le Chen, Xinhui Zhao, Jun Liu, Angang Yang, Jipeng Li, Rui Zhang
Year: 2023
Venue: Oncogene
DOI: 10.1038/s41388-023-02619-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10063445

Abstract:
The IGF1 signal pathway is highly activated in some subtype of gastric cancer(GC) that exhibits poor survival and chemotherapy resistance. Although the results of clinical trials of anti-IGF1R monoclonal antibodies and IGF-1R inhibitors have been mostly disappointing in unselected cancer patients, some patients benefit from anti-IGF1R therapy in these failed studies. Therefore, it is necessary to characterize the complex IGF signaling in GC and help refine the strategies targeting the IGF1 pathway. We found that GC cell lines exhibit differential responses to the specific IGF1R inhibitor OSI906. According to the phosphorylation status of Akt upon the OSI906 treatment, we divided the GC cell lines into IGF1R-dependent and IGF1R-independent cells. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments indicate that Dox-induced knockdown of NEDD4 significantly suppresses tumor growth of IGF1R-dependent GC cells and NEDD4 overexpression promotes tumor growth of IGF1R-dependent GC cells. In contrast, the proliferation of IGF1R-independent GC cells is not affected by NEDD4 silencing and overexpression. The rescue experiments show that a PTEN-IRS1 axis is required for NEDD4-mediated regulation of Akt activation and tumor growth in GC cells. Clinically, NEDD4 is expressed higher in IGF1-high GC tissues compared with IGF1-low GC tissues and normal tissues, and the co-high expression of NEDD4 and IGF1 predicts a worse prognosis in GC patients. Taken together, our study demonstrated that NEDD4 specifically promotes proliferation of GC cells dependent on IGF1/IGF1R signaling by antagonizing the protein phosphatase activity of PTEN to IRS1, and targeting NEDD4 may be a promising therapeutic strategy for IGF1 signal pathway-driven gastric cancer.
