Title: Dual amplification strategy turns TRPM2 channels into supersensitive central heat detectors
Authors: Ádám Bartók, László Csanády
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2212378119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9881722

Abstract:
Significance Thermoregulation in the mammalian body is mediated by a central brain thermostat. Because deep-brain temperatures are maintained within a narrow range, the thermostat must contain a sensor that can differentiate temperature fluctuations as small as ±1°C around 37°C. No protein with such intrinsic properties is currently known. Recently, the ligand-gated ion channel TRPM2 was identified as pivotal for thermoregulation, but it is unclear whether the intrinsic properties of TRPM2 itself or temperature dependence of its agonist concentrations is responsible. Here, we show that the TRPM2 protein intrinsically possesses the unique properties essential for a deep brain temperature sensor: exceptional response-steepness and an optimal threshold. We uncover two unusual molecular mechanisms that serve to achieve that aim in a protein-autonomous manner. The Ca 2+ and ADP ribose (ADPR)-activated cation channel TRPM2 is the closest homolog of the cold sensor TRPM8 but serves as a deep-brain warmth sensor. To unravel the molecular mechanism of heat sensing by the TRPM2 protein, we study here temperature dependence of TRPM2 currents in cell-free membrane patches across ranges of agonist concentrations. We find that channel gating remains strictly agonist-dependent even at 40°C: heating alone or in combination with just Ca 2+ , just ADPR, Ca 2+ + cyclic ADPR, or H 2 O 2 pretreatment only marginally activates TRPM2. For fully liganded TRPM2, pore opening is intrinsically endothermic, due to ~10-fold larger activation enthalpy for opening (~200 kJ/mol) than for closure (~20 kJ/mol). However, the temperature threshold is too high (>40°C) for unliganded but too low (<15°C) for fully liganded channels. Thus, warmth sensitivity around 37°C is restricted to narrow ranges of agonist concentrations. For ADPR, that range matches, but for Ca 2+ , it exceeds bulk cytosolic values. The supraphysiological [Ca 2+ ] needed for TRPM2 warmth sensitivity is provided by Ca 2+ entering through the channel’s pore. That positive feedback provides further strong amplification to the TRPM2 temperature response (Q 10 ~ 1,000), enabling the TRPM2 protein to autonomously respond to tiny temperature fluctuations around 37°C. These functional data together with published structures suggest a molecular mechanism for opposite temperature dependences of two closely related channel proteins.
