Title: Energy-Aware and Secure Task Offloading for Multi-Tier Edge-Cloud Computing Systems
Authors: Hatem A. Alharbi, Mohammad Aldossary, Jaber Almutairi, Ibrahim A. Elgendy
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23063254
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10055840

Abstract:
Nowadays, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) devices and their services and applications are gaining popularity and attracting considerable attention in different fields of our daily life. Nevertheless, most of these applications and services require more powerful computational resources and energy, and their limited battery capacity and processing power make it difficult to run them on a single device. Edge-Cloud Computing (ECC) is emerging as a new paradigm to cope with the challenges of these applications, which moves computing resources to the edge of the network and remote cloud, thereby alleviating the overhead through task offloading. Even though ECC offers substantial benefits for these devices, the limited bandwidth condition in the case of simultaneous offloading via the same channel with increasing data transmission of these applications has not been adequately addressed. Moreover, protecting the data through transmission remains a significant concern that still needs to be addressed. Therefore, in this paper, to bypass the limited bandwidth and address the potential security threats challenge, a new compression, security, and energy-aware task offloading framework is proposed for the ECC system environment. Specifically, we first introduce an efficient layer of compression to smartly reduce the transmission data over the channel. In addition, to address the security issue, a new layer of security based on an Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cryptographic technique is presented to protect offloaded and sensitive data from different vulnerabilities. Subsequently, task offloading, data compression, and security are jointly formulated as a mixed integer problem whose objective is to reduce the overall energy of the system under latency constraints. Finally, simulation results reveal that our model is scalable and can cause a significant reduction in energy consumption (i.e., 19%, 18%, 21%, 14.5%, 13.1% and 12%) with respect to other benchmarks (i.e., local, edge, cloud and further benchmark models).
