Title: Assessment of the Asian Neurogastroenterology and Motility Association Chronic Constipation Criteria: An Asian Multicenter Cross-sectional Study
Authors: Kok-Ann Gwee, Paul Bergmans, JinYong Kim, Bogdana Coudsy, Angelia Sim, Minhu Chen, Lin Lin, Xiaohua Hou, Huahong Wang, Khean-Lee Goh, John A Pangilinan, Nayoung Kim, Stanislas Bruley des Varannes
Year: 2017
Venue: Journal of Neurogastroenterology and Motility
DOI: 10.5056/jnm16095
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5383121

Abstract:
Background/Aims There is a need for a simple and practical tool adapted for the diagnosis of chronic constipation (CC) in the Asian population. This study compared the Asian Neurogastroenterology and Motility Association (ANMA) CC tool and Rome III criteria for the diagnosis of CC in Asian subjects. Methods This multicenter, cross-sectional study included subjects presenting at outpatient gastrointestinal clinics across Asia. Subjects with CC alert symptoms completed a combination Diagnosis Questionnaire to obtain a diagnosis based on 4 different diagnostic methods: self-defined, investigator’s judgment, ANMA CC tool, and Rome III criteria. The primary endpoint was the level of agreement/disagreement between the ANMA CC diagnostic tool and Rome III criteria for the diagnosis of CC. Results The primary analysis comprised of 449 subjects, 414 of whom had a positive diagnosis according to the ANMA CC tool. Rome III positive/ANMA positive and Rome III negative/ANMA negative diagnoses were reported in 76.8% and 7.8% of subjects, respectively, resulting in an overall percentage agreement of 84.6% between the 2 diagnostic methods. The overall percentage disagreement between these 2 diagnostic methods was 15.4%. A higher level of agreement was seen between the ANMA CC tool and self-defined (374 subjects [90.3%]) or investigator’s judgment criteria (388 subjects [93.7%]) compared with the Rome III criteria. Conclusion This study demonstrates that the ANMA CC tool can be a useful for Asian patients with CC.
