Title: Parental COVID-19 Vaccine Hesitancy in Diverse Communities: A National Survey
Authors: Annabelle de St Maurice, Ray Block Jr., Gabriel Sanchez, Peter G. Szilagyi
Year: 2022
Venue: Academic Pediatrics
DOI: 10.1016/j.acap.2022.06.016
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9254650

Abstract:
Objective We surveyed a diverse group of US participants to understand parental coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine hesitancy. Methods We administered a telephone and online survey from May 7 to June 7, 2021 using stratified sampling to ensure robust sample sizes of racial and ethnic minorities. Of the 20,280 contacted, 12,288 respondents completed the survey (response rate 61%). We used chi-square tests and adjusted risk ratios to compare results by racial/ethnic group. Results Overall, 23% of parents stated that they plan to (or have) vaccinated their children; 30% said that they would not vaccinate their children, and 25% were unsure. Latino/a, Native American, and Asian American-Pacific Islander (AAPI) parents were generally more likely to vaccinate their children than Black or White parents. After adjusting for demographic factors, AAPI parents were significantly more likely to vaccinate their children than were others. Of parents who said that they would not vaccinate their child, 55% stated it was due to insufficient research. However, over half of parents stated that they would follow their child's health care provider's recommendations. After adjusting for demographic factors, trust in their primary care doctor was significantly lower among AAPI, Black, and Native American parents than White parents. Conclusions Parental vaccine hesitancy was similar overall, but drivers of hesitancy varied by racial/ethnic groups. While the perception that vaccines had been “insufficiently researched” was a major concern among all groups, we found that parents are generally inclined to follow health providers’ recommendations. Health professionals can play an important role in COVID-19 vaccine education and should provide access to vaccines.
