Title: Simulation-based learning in palliative care in postgraduate nursing education: a scoping review
Authors: Karoline Skedsmo, Andréa Aparecida Gonçalves Nes, Hege Vistven Stenseth, Kristin Hofsø, Marie Hamilton Larsen, Deborah Hilderson, Dieter Smis, Carina Lundh Hagelin, Camilla Olaussen, Marianne Trygg Solberg, Hanne Maria Bingen, Mia Alexandra Ølnes, Simen A. Steindal
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Palliative Care
DOI: 10.1186/s12904-023-01149-w
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10052798

Abstract:
Background Nurses require advanced competence in palliative care, but they face wide variations in education and a shortage in opportunities for clinical placement. Simulation-based learning (SBL) can enable students to develop clinical skills, critical thinking and confidence. No scoping reviews to date have mapped the use of SBL in palliative care within postgraduate nursing education. Methods The aim of this scoping review was to systematically map published studies on the use of SBL in palliative care in postgraduate nursing education. A scoping review was conducted using Arksey and O’Malley’s (Int J Soc Res Meth 8(1):19–32, 2005) methodological framework. A systematic and comprehensive search of the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), the Education Resources Information Center (ERIC), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, Allied and Complementary Medicine and PsycINFO was performed for studies published between January 2000 and April 2022. Two authors independently assessed papers for inclusion and extracted data. Reporting followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklist. The protocol was registered on the Open Science Framework. Results This review includes 10 studies. Three thematic groupings were identified: enhanced understanding of the importance of teamwork, interdisciplinarity and interpersonal skills; preparedness and confidence in one’s ability to communicate during emotionally challenging situations; and impact and relevance to one’s own clinical practice. Conclusions The use of SBL in palliative care in postgraduate nursing education seems to enhance students’ understanding of the importance of teamwork and interdisciplinarity. The review shows contradictory results regarding whether SBL in palliative care increases students’ confidence in their communication skills. Postgraduate nursing students experienced personal growth after participating in SBL. Because our findings indicate that limited research has been conducted within this field, future research should (1) explore postgraduate nursing students’ experiences with SBL in palliative care with a focus on more practical content such as symptom management, (2) examine the relevance and application of SBL in clinical practice, and (3) be reported in line with recommendations on the reporting of simulation research. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12904-023-01149-w.
