Title: Salusin- β contributes to oxidative stress and inflammation in diabetic cardiomyopathy
Authors: Ming-Xia Zhao, Bing Zhou, Li Ling, Xiao-Qing Xiong, Feng Zhang, Qi Chen, Yue-Hua Li, Yu-Ming Kang, Guo-Qing Zhu
Year: 2017
Venue: Cell Death & Disease
DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2017.106
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386515

Abstract:
Salusin- β accelerates inflammatory responses in vascular endothelial cells, and increases oxidative stress in vascular smooth muscle cells. Plasma salusin- β levels were increased in diabetic patients. This study was designed to determine whether salusin- β is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and whether knockdown of salusin- β attenuates cardiac inflammation and oxidative stress in rats with DCM. H9c2 or neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were incubated with 33.3 mM of glucose to mimic the high glucose (HG) in diabetes. Streptozotocin and high-fat diet were used to induce type 2 diabetes in rats. HG induced salusin- β expression in H9c2 cells. Salusin- β caused greater responses of oxidative stress, NF κ B activation and inflammation in HG-treated H9c2 cells than these in control H9c2 cells. Diphenyleneiodonium (a NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor) or N -acetylcysteine (an antioxidant) inhibited the salusin- β -induced NF κ B activation and inflammation. Bay11-7082 (a NF κ B inhibitor) attenuated salusin- β -induced inflammation but not oxidative stress. Knockdown of salusin- β prevented the HG-induced oxidative stress, NF κ B activation and inflammation in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Silencing salusin- β with adenoviruse-mediated shRNA had no significant effects on blood glucose and insulin resistance, but attenuated ventricular dysfunction in diabetic rats. Oxidative stress, NF κ B activation, inflammation, salusin- β upregulation in myocardium of diabetic rats were prevented by knockdown of salusin- β . These results indicate that salusin- β contributes to inflammation in DCM via NOX2/ROS/NF κ B signaling, and that knockdown of salusin- β attenuates cardiac dysfunction, oxidative stress and inflammation in DCM.
