Title: Safety evaluation of the food enzyme phospholipase A2 from the genetically modified Streptomyces violaceoruber strain AS‐10
Authors: Claude Lambré, José Manuel Barat Baviera, Claudia Bolognesi, Pier Sandro Cocconcelli, Riccardo Crebelli, David Michael Gott, Konrad Grob, Evgenia Lampi, Marcel Mengelers, Alicja Mortensen, Gilles Rivière, Inger‐Lise Steffensen, Christina Tlustos, Henk Van Loveren, Laurence Vernis, Holger Zorn, Joaquim Maia, Natalia Kovalkovicova, Simone Lunardi, Giulio di Piazza, Rita Ferreira de Sousa, Yi Liu, Andrew Chesson
Year: 2023
Venue: EFSA Journal
DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2023.7458
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890527

Abstract:
Abstract The food enzyme phospholipase A2 (phosphatidylcholine 2‐acylhydrolase EC 3.1.1.4) is produced with the genetically modified Streptomyces violaceoruber strain AS‐10 by Nagase (Europa) GmbH. The genetic modifications do not give rise to safety concerns. The food enzyme is free from viable cells of the production organism and its DNA. It is intended to be used in four food manufacturing processes, i.e. egg processing, baking processes, degumming of fats and oils and milk processing for cheese production. Since residual amounts of total organic solids (TOS) are removed in degumming of fats and oils, dietary exposure was calculated only for the remaining three food manufacturing processes. Dietary exposure to the food enzyme–TOS was estimated to be up to 0.41 mg TOS/kg body weight (bw) per day in European populations. Genotoxicity tests did not indicate a safety concern. The systemic toxicity was assessed by means of a repeated dose 90‐day oral toxicity study in rats. The Panel identified a no observed adverse effect level of 191.2 mg TOS/kg bw per day, the mid‐dose tested, which, when compared with the estimated dietary exposure, results in a margin of exposure above 460. A search for similarity of the amino acid sequence of the food enzyme to known allergens was made and no matches were found. The Panel considered that, under the intended conditions of use, the risk of allergic sensitisation and elicitation reactions by dietary exposure cannot be excluded, but the likelihood for this to occur is considered to be low. Based on the data provided, the Panel concluded that this food enzyme does not give rise to safety concerns under the intended conditions of use.
