Title: Introducing Modified Technique of Combined Vaginal and Laparoscopic Approach for Creation of Neovagina
Authors: Alfa P. Meutia, Achmad Kemal Harzif, Tyas Priyatini, Fernandi Moegni, Surahman Hakim, Suskhan Djusad
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108164
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149330

Abstract:
Introduction and importance There are many methods described in the literature for creating a functional neovagina. However, the best method has yet to be determined. In our urogynecology training center, neovaginoplasty was usually performed by vaginal approach using modified McIndoe technique with amnion graft and >7 days hospitalization was required. However, we tried to combine both vaginal and laparoscopic modified technique of neovaginoplasty to improve the functional and surgical outcome as well as shortened hospital stay. Case presentation A 27-year-old woman came to our center with a chief complaint of primary amenorrhea and she was diagnosed with vaginal agenesis as part of Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome. She underwent neovaginaplasty using a combined vaginal and laparoscopic approach with autologous peritoneal graft. Patient was discharged the next day. The follow up result (6-24 months) was excellent with total vaginal length was 8 cm and FSFI score 34.5. Clinical discussion The use of peritoneal graft using a laparoscopic approach for vaginal reconstruction was chosen in this case after proper counseling with the type of vaginal mucosal lining as the primary consideration. We combined our routine vaginal approach technique with laparoscopic approach to provide an autologous peritoneal graft and considered modifying the technique by extending the peritoneal dissection laterally to facilitate mobilization of the peritoneum to cover the whole surface of neovagina. Conclusion Combined vaginal and laparoscopic modified technique of neovagina creation may present as treatment option for MRKH patients with excellent anatomical and functional result, minimal surgical complication and shorter hospital stay. Highlights • Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome is a congenital disorder of vaginal and uterine agenesis/aplasia. • Minimally invasive technique is preferred for neovagina creation due to shorter hospital stay and similar complication rate. • A combined laparoscopic and vaginal approach is a feasible option in creating a functional neovagina.
