Title: CD44 targets Wnt/β-catenin pathway to mediate the proliferation of K562 cells
Authors: Guoqiang Chang, Hongju Zhang, Jian Wang, Yujuan Zhang, Hua Xu, Chijuan Wang, Hairui Zhang, Li Ma, Qinghua Li, Tianxiang Pang
Year: 2013
Venue: Cancer Cell International
DOI: 10.1186/1475-2867-13-117
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4176735

Abstract:
Background Chronic myeloid leukemia is a clonal myeloproliferative disorder disease in which BCR/ABL plays an important role as an oncoprotein and molecular target. Despite the success of targeted therapy using tyrosine kinase inhibitors, CML remains largely incurable, most likely due to the treatment resistance after firstly chemical therapy. So know well the unique molecular pathway of CML is very important. Methods The expressions of CD44 in different leukemia patients and cell lines were detected by real-time PCR and western blotting. The effects of CD44 on proliferation of K562 cells were determined using the MTT and colony formation assays, and even in a nude mouse transplantation model. Then, the cell cycle changes were detected by flow cytometric analysis and the early apoptosis of cells was detected by the annexin V/propidium iodide double-staining assay. The expressions of the cycles and apoptosis-related proteins p21, Cyclin D1 and Bcl-2 were analyzed by western blot and real-time PCR assay. Finally, the decreased nuclear accumulation of β-catenin was detected by western blotting and immunefluorescence. Results Firstly, we showed that CD44 expression was increased in several kinds of leukemia patients and K562 cells. By contrast, the down-regulation of CD44 resulted in decreased proliferation with a G 0 /G 1 arrest of cell cycle in K562 cells according to the MTT assay and the flow cytometric analysis. And no significant induction of both the early and late phases of apoptosis was shown by the annexin V-FITC and PI staining. During this process, p21 and cyclin D1 are the major causes for cell cycle arrest. In addition, we found CD44 down-regulation decreased the expression of β-catenin and increased the expression of phosphorylated β-catenin. The instability of Wnt/β-catenin pathway induced by increased expression of p-β-catenin resulted in a decreased nuclear accumulation in CD44 silenced K562 cells. In the nude mouse transplantation model, we also found the same results. Conclusions These results show that K562 cells depend to a greater extent on CD44 for proliferation, and CD44 down-regulation may induce a cell cycle arrest through Wnt/β-catenin pathway. CD44 blockade may be beneficial in therapy of CML.
