Title: Head-tail-head neural wiring underlies gut fat storage in Caenorhabditis elegans temperature acclimation
Authors: Haruka Motomura, Makoto Ioroi, Kazutoshi Murakami, Atsushi Kuhara, Akane Ohta
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2203121119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371718

Abstract:
Significance Animals maintain the ability to survive and reproduce by acclimating to temperature. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans possesses experience-dependent temperature acclimation. Here, we revealed that a head-tail-head neural circuit regulated gut fat storage, which was essential for temperature acclimation. The head-tail-head neural circuit comprised ASJ head thermosensory neurons, PVQ tail interneurons, and RMG head hub interneurons, which induced secretion of the neuropeptide FLP-7. FLP-7 was received by its receptor on the intestine, which activated the adipose triglyceride lipase, thus inducing intestinal lipolysis, which is critical for temperature acclimation. The proposed head-tail-head neuronal wiring coupled with gut fat storage provides a useful model for understanding the role of the brain–gut network in the systemic regulation of temperature acclimation. Animals maintain the ability to survive and reproduce by acclimating to environmental temperatures. We showed here that Caenorhabditis elegans exhibited temperature acclimation plasticity, which was regulated by a head-tail-head neural circuitry coupled with gut fat storage. After experiencing cold, C. elegans individuals memorized the experience and were prepared against subsequent cold stimuli. The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) regulated temperature acclimation in the ASJ thermosensory neurons and RMG head interneurons, where it modulated ASJ thermosensitivity in response to past cultivation temperature. The PVQ tail interneurons mediated the communication between ASJ and RMG via glutamatergic signaling. Temperature acclimation occurred via gut fat storage regulation by the triglyceride lipase ATGL-1, which was activated by a neuropeptide, FLP-7, downstream of CREB. Thus, a head-tail-head neural circuit coordinated with gut fat influenced experience-dependent temperature acclimation.
