Title: Hospital-based patient navigation programs for patients who experience injury-related trauma and their caregivers: a scoping review
Authors: Shelley Doucet, Alison Luke, Grailing Anthonisen
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-066260
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806040

Abstract:
Objective This review’s objective is to map the literature on the characteristics, impact, barriers and facilitators of hospital-based patient navigation programmes that support patients who experience injury-related trauma and their caregivers. Patients who experience injury-related trauma frequently require support from multiple care teams and face many challenges to care, both in hospital and when transitioning across settings and services. Patient navigation can improve their care. Design This review is conducted according to JBI methodology for scoping reviews. The initial database search took place on 6 June 2021 and the grey literature search took place between September and October 2021. The results are presented in a Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses for Scoping Reviews flow diagram. Setting This review considered materials where the patient navigation programmes were delivered in hospital settings. There was no geographical limit to this study. Participants This review focused on hospital-based patient navigation programmes for patients who experience injury-related trauma and/or their caregivers. Results This review captured 11 records that describe 10 programmes. All programmes were based in the USA. Most programmes provided education, care coordination, discharge planning, and referrals to resources, services, and programmes to assist patients and/or their families in the hospital or the community. Half the programmes were based in level 1 trauma centres. Common impacts included decreases in readmission rates and increases in satisfaction rates. Barriers included difficulty recruiting or enrolling patients with short hospital stays and hospital administrators’ and healthcare providers’ lack of understanding of the navigator role. Navigator background, either professional or experiential, was identified as a facilitator, as was flexibility in programme delivery and communication methods. Conclusions Eleven records show a small but distinct sample. Reported characteristics, impact, barriers and facilitators were consistent with findings from other patient navigation studies. The results can inform the development and implementation of similar programmes in trauma centres and support changes in policy to improve the delivery of care.
