Title: Madecassic acid, the contributor to the anti-colitis effect of madecassoside, enhances the shift of Th17 toward Treg cells via the PPAR γ /AMPK/ACC1 pathway
Authors: Xiaotian Xu, Yuhui Wang, Zhifeng Wei, Wenhui Wei, Peng Zhao, Bei Tong, Yufeng Xia, Yue Dai
Year: 2017
Venue: Cell Death & Disease
DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2017.150
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386545

Abstract:
The imbalance between Th17 and Treg cells substantially contributes to the intestinal immune disturbance and subsequent tissue injury in ulcerative colitis. The triterpenoid - rich fraction of Centella asiatica was able to ameliorate dextran sulfate sodium - induced colitis in mice. Here we explored its active ingredient and underlying mechanism with a focus on restoring the Th17/Treg balance. The four main triterpenoids occurring in C. asiatica were shown to attenuate colitis in mice by oral administration. The most effective ingredient madecassoside lost anti - colitis effect when applied topically in the colon, and madecassic acid was recognized to be the active form of madecassoside. Oral administration of madecassic acid decreased the percentage of Th17 cells and downregulated the expression of ROR γ t, IL - 17A, IL - 17F, IL - 21 and IL - 22 and increased the percentage of Treg cells and the expression of Foxp3 and IL - 10 in the colons of mice with colitis, but it did not affect Th1 and Th2 cells. Under Th17 - polarizing conditions, madecassic acid downregulated ACC1 expression and enhanced the shift of Th17 cells toward Treg cells, but it did not affect the differentiation of Treg cells under Treg - polarizing conditions. Both compound C and AMPK siRNA inhibited the madecassic acid - mediated downregulation of ACC1 expression and shift of Th17 cells to Treg cells under Th17 - polarizing conditions. GW9662, T0070907 and PPAR γ siRNA blocked the effect of madecassic acid on AMPK activation, ACC1 expression and shift of Th17 cells to Treg cells. Furthermore, madecassic acid was identified as a PPAR γ agonist, as it promoted PPAR γ transactivation. The correlation between activation of PPAR γ and AMPK, downregulation of ACC1 expression, restoration of Th17/Treg balance and attenuation of colitis by madecassic acid was validated in mice with DSS - induced colitis. In conclusion, madecassic acid was the active form of madecassoside in ameliorating colitis by restoring the Th17/Treg balance via regulating the PPAR γ /AMPK/ACC1 pathway.
