Title: Construction of a cuproptosis‐related lncRNA signature for predicting prognosis and immune landscape in osteosarcoma patients
Authors: Shumin Ni, Jinjiong Hong, Weilong Li, Meng Ye, Jinyun Li
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Medicine
DOI: 10.1002/cam4.5214
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9972154

Abstract:
Abstract Background Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) influence the onset of osteosarcoma. Cuproptosis is a novel cell death mechanism. We attempted to identify a cuproptosis‐related lncRNA signature to predict the prognosis and immune landscape in osteosarcoma patients. Methods Transcriptional and clinical data of 85 osteosarcoma patients were derived from the TARGET database and randomly categorized into the training and validation cohorts. We implemented the univariate and multivariate Cox regression, along with LASSO regression analyses for developing a cuproptosis‐related lncRNA risk model. Kaplan–Meier curves, C‐index, ROC curves, univariate and multivariate Cox regression, and nomogram were used to assess the capacity of this risk model to predict the osteosarcoma prognosis. Gene ontology, KEGG, and Gene Set Enrichment (GSEA) analyses were conducted for determining the potential functional differences existing between the high‐risk and low‐risk patients. We further conducted the ESTIMATE, single‐smaple GSEA, and CIBERSORT analyses for identifying the different immune microenvironments and immune cells infiltrating both the risk groups. Results We screened out four cuproptosis‐related lncRNAs ( AL033384.2 , AL031775.1 , AC110995.1 , and LINC00565) to construct the risk model in the training cohort. This risk model displayed a good performance to predict the overall survival of osteosarcoma patients, which was confirmed by using the validation and the entire cohort. Further analyses showed that the low‐risk patients have more immune activation and immune cells infiltrating as well as a good response to immunotherapy. Conclusions We developed a novel cuproptosis‐related lncRNA signature with high reliability and accuracy for predicting outcome and immunotherapy response in osteosarcoma patients, which provides new insights into the personalized treatment of osteosarcoma. Using the TARGET‐OS database, we developed a risk score prognosis model using the cuproptosis‐related lncRNAs. The novel cuproptosis‐related lncRNA signature have high reliability and accuracy for predicting outcome and immunotherapy response in osteosarcoma patients.
