Title: Effects of Dietary Habits on General and Abdominal Obesity in Community-dwelling Patients with Schizophrenia
Authors: Mina Kim, Soo Jin Yang, Hyang Hee Kim, Anna Jo, Min Jhon, Ju-Yeon Lee, Seung-Hyung Ryu, Jae-Min Kim, Young-Ran Kweon, Sung-Wan Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience
DOI: 10.9758/cpn.2023.21.1.68
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889910

Abstract:
Objective To investigate the effects of dietary habits on general and abdominal obesity in community-dwelling patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorder according to sex. Methods A total of 270 patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorder registered at mental health welfare centers and rehabilitation facilities were recruited. General obesity was defined as a body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , and abdominal obesity was defined as a waist circumstance ≥ 90 cm in men and ≥ 85 cm in women. Dietary habits were evaluated using dietary guidelines published by the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare. Demographic and clinical characteristics along with dietary habits and information related to obesity were collected. Factors related to obesity were evaluated separately by sex. Results Dietary habits differed according to sex, in that scores for healthy eating habits were lower in men than in women. In men, the prevalences of general and abdominal obesity were 17.0% and 37.3%, respectively. In women, the prevalences of general and abdominal obesity were 23.1% and 38.5%, respectively. Regression analysis showed that the scores of regular eating habits were negatively associated with general and abdominal obesity in men, and the scores of healthy eating habits were negatively associated with general and abdominal obesity in women. Conclusion Among patients with schizophrenia, regular eating habits might reduce the risk of obesity in men, and healthy eating habits might reduce the risk of obesity in women. Nutrition education should be provided to community-dwelling patients with schizophrenia to prevent obesity in this population.
