Title: The use of virtual reality in screening for preclinical Alzheimer’s disease: A scoping review protocol
Authors: Yuan Tian, Maneesh V. Kuruvilla, Mira Park
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0282436
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9970083

Abstract:
Introduction Preclinical Alzheimer’s disease (AD) represents the earliest phase of AD, often years before the onset of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). There is a pressing focus on identifying individuals in the preclinical AD phase to alter the trajectory or impact of the disease potentially. Increasingly, Virtual Reality (VR) technology is being used to support a diagnosis of AD. While VR technology has been applied to the assessment of MCI and AD, studies about how best to utilize VR as a screening tool for preclinical AD are limited and discordant. The objectives of this review are to synthesize the evidence pertaining to the use of VR as a screening tool for preclinical AD as well as to identify factors that need to be considered when utilizing VR to screen for preclinical AD. Methods and analysis The methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O’Malley (2005) will be introduced to guide the conduction of the scoping review, and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR) (2018) will be used to organize and structure the review. PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, ScienceDirect and Google Scholar will be used to search for literature. Obtained studies will be screened for eligibility based on predefined exclusion criteria. A narrative synthesis of eligible studies will be performed, after tabulating the extracted data from existing literature, to answer the research questions. Ethics and dissemination Ethical approval is not required for this scoping review. Findings will be disseminated through conference presentations, publication in a peer-reviewed journal, and discussions among professional networks in the research domain combining neuroscience and information and communications technology (ICT). Registration details This protocol has been registered on Open Science Framework (OSF). Relevant materials and potential following updates are available at https://osf.io/aqmyu .
