Title: Compliance with Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol recommendations for bariatric surgery in an obesity treatment center
Authors: Júlia Gonçalves Zandomenico, Fabiana Schuelter Trevisol, Jean Abreu Machado
Year: 2023
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Anesthesiology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjane.2021.10.018
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801194

Abstract:
Introduction The higher risk of perioperative complications associated with obesity has made anesthesiologists increasingly concerned with the management of obese patients. Measures that improve bariatric surgery patient safety have become essential. The implementation of ERAS protocols in several surgical specialties has made it possible to achieve appropriate outcomes as to surgery safety. The aim of this study was to evaluate patient compliance with the recommendations of an ERAS protocol for Bariatric Surgery (ERABS) at a hospital specialized in obesity treatment. Methods Cross-sectional study, using a medical record database, in a hospital certified as an International Center of Excellence in Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery. The definition of the variables to be assessed was based on the most recent ERABS proposed by Thorell et al. Results were analyzed using descriptive epidemiology. Results The study evaluated all patients undergoing bariatric surgery in 2019. Mean compliance with the recommendations per participant was 42.8%, with a maximum of 55.5%, and was distributed as follows: 22.6% of compliance with preoperative recommendations, 60% to intraoperative recommendations, and 58.1% to postoperative recommendations. The anesthesiologist is the professional who provides most measures for the perioperative optimization of bariatric surgery patients. In our study we found that anesthesiologists complied with only 39.5% of ERABS recommendations. Conclusions Mean compliance with ERABS recommendations per participant was 42.8%. Considering that the study was carried out at a hospital certified as an international center of excellence, the need for introducing improvements in the care of patients to be submitted to bariatric surgery is evident.
