Title: Synthesis, Structure, and Photophysical Properties of Platinum(II) ( N , C , N ′) Pincer Complexes Derived from Purine Nucleobases †
Authors: Carmen Lorenzo-Aparicio, Sonia Moreno-Blázquez, Montserrat Oliván, Miguel A. Esteruelas, Mar Gómez Gallego, Pablo García-Álvarez, Javier A. Cabeza, Miguel A. Sierra
Year: 2023
Venue: Inorganic Chemistry
DOI: 10.1021/acs.inorgchem.3c00650
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10230507

Abstract:
The synthesis of a series of Pt{κ 3 - N , C , N ′-[L]}X (X = Cl, RC≡C) pincer complexes derived from purine and purine nucleosides is reported. In these complexes, the 6-phenylpurine skeleton provides the N , C -cyclometalated fragment, whereas an amine, imine, or pyridine substituent of the phenyl ring supplies the additional N ′-coordination point to the pincer complex. The purine N , C -fragment has two coordination positions with the metal ( N 1 and N 7), but the formation of the platinum complexes is totally regioselective. Coordination through the N 7 position leads to the thermodynamically favored [6.5]-Pt{κ 3 - N 7, C , N ′-[L]}X complexes. However, the coordination through the N 1 position is preferred by the amino derivatives, leading to the isomeric kinetic [5.5]-Pt{κ 3 - N 1, C , N ′-[L]}X complexes. Extension of the reported methodology to complexes having both pincer and acetylide ligands derived from nucleosides allows the preparation of novel heteroleptic bis-nucleoside compounds that could be regarded as organometallic models of Pt-induced interstrand cross-link. Complexes having amine or pyridine arms are green phosphorescence emitters upon photoexcitation at low concentrations in CH 2 Cl 2 solution and in poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) films. They undergo self-quenching at high concentrations due to molecular aggregation. The presence of intermolecular π–π stacking and weak Pt···Pt interactions was also observed in the solid state by X-ray diffraction analysis. The synthesis of a series of Pt{κ 3 -N,C,N′-[L]}X (X = Cl, RC≡C) pincer complexes derived from purine and purine nucleosides, is reported, and their structural and photophysical properties determined. These complexes undergo self-quenching at high concentrations, due to molecular aggregation and the presence of intermolecular π-π stacking and weak Pt···Pt interactions were observed in the solid state by X-ray diffraction analysis.
