Title: Carbon mineralization with concurrent critical metal recovery from olivine
Authors: Fei Wang, David Dreisinger
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2203937119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371728

Abstract:
Significance Global warming mitigation and energy transition require effective CO 2 emission reduction and enhanced supply of critical metals. Carbon mineralization and concurrent critical metal recovery using a metal-complexing ligand offer a significant opportunity to simultaneously achieve both objectives for sustainable development. The utilization of ex situ direct aqueous mineral carbonation can potentially make the CO 2 mineralization process economically feasible owing to the value of nickel and cobalt recovered and comprehensive usage of mineral resources to sequester carbon and realize carbon credits. The success of high carbon mineralization efficiency and highly selective metal extraction in one step makes the accelerated mineral carbonation applicable. Nickel recovery from olivine silicate minerals can increase global metal production and expand the reserves of explorable nickel resources. Carbon dioxide utilization for enhanced metal recovery (EMR) during mineralization has been recently developed as part of CCUS (carbon capture, utilization, and storage). This paper describes fundamental studies on integrating CO 2 mineralization and concurrent selective metal extraction from natural olivine. Nearly 90% of nickel and cobalt extraction and mineral carbonation efficiency are achieved in a highly selective, single-step process. Direct aqueous mineral carbonation releases Ni 2+ and Co 2+ into aqueous solution for subsequent recovery, while Mg 2+ and Fe 2+ simultaneously convert to stable mineral carbonates for permanent CO 2 storage. This integrated process can be completed in neutral aqueous solution. Introduction of a metal-complexing ligand during mineral carbonation aids the highly selective extraction of Ni and Co over Fe and Mg. The ligand must have higher stability for Ni-/Co- complex ions compared with the Fe(II)-/Mg- complex ions and divalent metal carbonates. This single-step process with a suitable metal-complexing ligand is robust and utilizes carbonation processes under various kinetic regimes. This fundamental study provides a framework for further development and successful application of direct aqueous mineral carbonation with concurrent EMR. The enhanced metal extraction and CO 2 mineralization process may have implications for the clean energy transition, CO 2 storage and utilization, and development of new critical metal resources.
