Title: Development of an artificial intelligence-derived histologic signature associated with adjuvant gemcitabine treatment outcomes in pancreatic cancer
Authors: Vivek Nimgaonkar, Viswesh Krishna, Vrishab Krishna, Ekin Tiu, Anirudh Joshi, Damir Vrabac, Hriday Bhambhvani, Katelyn Smith, Julia S. Johansen, Shalini Makawita, Benjamin Musher, Arnav Mehta, Andrew Hendifar, Zev Wainberg, Davendra Sohal, Christos Fountzilas, Aatur Singhi, Pranav Rajpurkar, Eric A. Collisson
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101013
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140610

Abstract:
Summary Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has been left behind in the evolution of personalized medicine. Predictive markers of response to therapy are lacking in PDAC despite various histological and transcriptional classification schemes. We report an artificial intelligence (AI) approach to histologic feature examination that extracts a signature predictive of disease-specific survival (DSS) in patients with PDAC receiving adjuvant gemcitabine. We demonstrate that this AI-generated histologic signature is associated with outcomes following adjuvant gemcitabine, while three previously developed transcriptomic classification systems are not (n = 47). We externally validate this signature in an independent cohort of patients treated with adjuvant gemcitabine (n = 46). Finally, we demonstrate that the signature does not stratify survival outcomes in a third cohort of untreated patients (n = 161), suggesting that the signature is specifically predictive of treatment-related outcomes but is not generally prognostic. This imaging analysis pipeline has promise in the development of actionable markers in other clinical settings where few biomarkers currently exist. Graphical abstract Highlights • Pancreatic cancer lacks actionable biomarkers for precision therapy • We report on an AI-derived histologic marker for adjuvant gemcitabine response • The AI histologic signature is not associated with existing transcriptomic sub-types • The signature is treatment specific in external cohorts Nimgaonkar et al. describe the identification of a histologic signature derived using artificial intelligence that stratifies patients receiving adjuvant gemcitabine for pancreatic cancer. The signature is not associated with existing transcriptomic classification schemes and validates specifically to gemcitabine-treated patients in external cohorts.
