Title: Comprehensive Analysis of the Expression, Prognosis, and Biological Significance of PLOD Family in Bladder Cancer
Authors: Ru Chen, Ming Jiang, Bing Hu, Bin Fu, Ting Sun
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of General Medicine
DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S399875
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975538

Abstract:
Background Large numbers of studies have identified that procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase (PLOD) family members play important roles in tumorigenesis and tumor progression in various cancers. However, the expression pattern, clinical value and function of PLOD family have yet to be analyzed systematically and comprehensively in bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA). Methods We investigated the transcriptional levels, genetic alteration, biological function, immune cell infiltration, data on survival of PLODs in patients with BLCA based on UALCAN, the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), TIMER, STRING, cBioPortal and GSCALite databases. Gene ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were performed in R software using the Cluster Profiler Bioconductor package. Protein–protein interaction (PPI) network was established by STRING and visualized by using R version (3.6.3) software. Survival analysis was performed using the packages “survminer”. Results The mRNA and protein expression patterns of PLOD family members were noticeably increased in BLC compared with normal tissue. The mRNA expression levels of PLOD1-2 genes were significantly correlated with histological subtypes and PLOD1 was significantly correlated with pathological stage. Furthermore, the high expression levels of PLOD1-2 were remarkably associated with poor overall survival (OS) in BLCA patients, meanwhile high expression levels of PLOD1 and PLOD3 were markedly associated with poor progression-free interval (PFI). In co-expression gene analysis, 50 genes were primarily associated with the differentially expressed PLODs in BLCA. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that protein hydroxylation, collagen fibril organization, and lysine degradation were key biological functions of PLODs in BLCA. Moreover, PLOD family genes were identified as being associated with the activities of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and closely associated with immune responses in BLCA. Conclusion PLOD family members might serve as potential therapeutic targets and prognostic markers for BLCA patients’ survival.
