Title: Prospective Evaluation of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Features of Magnesium-Based Alloy Screw Resorption in Pediatric Fractures
Authors: Stephan L. Waelti, Simon Wildermuth, Erik P. Willems, Tim Fischer, Tobias J. Dietrich, Sebastian Leschka, Christoph Matissek, Thomas Krebs, Stefan Markart
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12083016
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141748

Abstract:
Background: The resorption of magnesium-based alloy bioabsorbable screws results in the release of hydrogen gas, which can mimic infection and enter the growth plate. The screw itself and the released gas may also affect image quality. Objective: The evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings during the most active phase of screw resorption is the objective, with particular focus on the growth plate and to assess for the presence of metal-induced artifacts. Material and Methods: In total, 30 prospectively acquired MRIs from 17 pediatric patients with fractures treated with magnesium screws were assessed for the presence and distribution of intraosseous, extraosseous, and intra-articular gas; gas within the growth plate; osteolysis along the screw; joint effusion; bone marrow edema; periosteal reaction; soft tissue edema; and metal-induced artifacts. Results: Gas locules were found in the bone and soft tissues in 100% of the examinations, intra-articular in 40%, and in 37% of unfused growth plates. Osteolysis and the periosteal reaction were present in 87%, bone marrow edema in 100%, soft tissue edema in 100%, and joint effusion in 50% of examinations. Pile-up artifacts were present in 100%, and geometric distortion in 0% of examinations. Fat suppression was not significantly impaired in any examination. Conclusions: Gas and edema in the bone and soft tissues are normal findings during the resorption of magnesium screws and should not be misinterpreted as infection. Gas can also be detected within growth plates. MRI examinations can be performed without metal artifact reduction sequences. Standard fat suppression techniques are not significantly affected.
