Title: Associations of renal sinus fat with blood pressure and ectopic fat in a diverse cohort of adults
Authors: Catharine A. Couch, Lauren A. Fowler, Amy M. Goss, Barbara A. Gower
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Cardiology. Cardiovascular Risk and Prevention
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcrp.2022.200165
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975207

Abstract:
Background Renal sinus fat (RSF) is an ectopic fat depot shown to be associated with visceral adiposity and hypertension in predominantly white populations. The purpose of this analysis is to investigate RSF and associations between RSF and blood pressure in a cohort of African American (AA) and European American (EA) adults. A secondary purpose was to explore risk factors associated with RSF. Methods Participants were 116 A A and EA adult men and women. Ectopic fat depots were assessed with MRI: RSF, intraabdominal adipose tissue (IAAT), intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT), perimuscular adipose tissue (PMAT), and liver fat. Cardiovascular measures included diastolic blood pressure (DBP), systolic blood pressure (SBP), pulse pressure, mean arterial pressure, and flow mediated dilation. Matsuda index was calculated for insulin sensitivity. Pearson correlations were used to investigate associations of RSF with cardiovascular measures. Multiple linear regression was used to evaluate contributions of RSF on SBP and DBP and to explore factors associated with RSF. Results No difference was observed in RSF between AA and EA participants. RSF was positively associated with DBP in AA participants, but this was not independent of age and sex. Age, male sex, and total body fat were positively associated with RSF in AA participants. Insulin sensitivity was inversely and IAAT and PMAT were positively associated with RSF in EA participants. Conclusions Differential associations of RSF with age, insulin sensitivity, and adipose depots among AA and EA adults suggest unique pathophysiological mechanisms influence RSF deposition, which may contribute to chronic disease etiology and progression.
