Title: Confidence-ranked reconstruction of census microdata from published statistics
Authors: Travis Dick, Cynthia Dwork, Michael Kearns, Terrance Liu, Aaron Roth, Giuseppe Vietri, Zhiwei Steven Wu
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2218605120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974405

Abstract:
Significance We show how to launch a reconstruction attack on US Decennial Census data based only on publicly released statistics. The attack can recover individual microdata—i.e., the responses of individual Census survey respondents. Although our attack cannot reconstruct all rows of the private data, it can produce a confidence-based ranking of rows, such that rows that appear earlier in the ranking are more likely to appear in the private data. Thus, the attacker can reconstruct a fraction of the rows with confidence. We compare our attack to a hierarchy of increasingly strong baselines and show that we can outperform all of them. Our results point to the necessity of employing privacy-enhancing technologies when releasing statistics of privacy-sensitive datasets. A reconstruction attack on a private dataset D takes as input some publicly accessible information about the dataset and produces a list of candidate elements of D . We introduce a class of data reconstruction attacks based on randomized methods for nonconvex optimization. We empirically demonstrate that our attacks can not only reconstruct full rows of D from aggregate query statistics Q ( D )∈ℝ m but can do so in a way that reliably ranks reconstructed rows by their odds of appearing in the private data, providing a signature that could be used for prioritizing reconstructed rows for further actions such as identity theft or hate crime. We also design a sequence of baselines for evaluating reconstruction attacks. Our attacks significantly outperform those that are based only on access to a public distribution or population from which the private dataset D was sampled, demonstrating that they are exploiting information in the aggregate statistics Q ( D ) and not simply the overall structure of the distribution. In other words, the queries Q ( D ) are permitting reconstruction of elements of this dataset, not the distribution from which D was drawn. These findings are established both on 2010 US decennial Census data and queries and Census-derived American Community Survey datasets. Taken together, our methods and experiments illustrate the risks in releasing numerically precise aggregate statistics of a large dataset and provide further motivation for the careful application of provably private techniques such as differential privacy.
