Title: QTL mapping of wheat plant architectural characteristics and their genetic relationship with seven QTLs conferring resistance to sheath blight
Authors: Yan Guo, Ziyi Du, Jiang Chen, Zhongjun Zhang
Year: 2017
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174939
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5383044

Abstract:
Sheath blight is one of the most devastating wheat diseases worldwide. Breeding resistant cultivars is the most powerful strategy to defeat the disease. Plant resistance on “disease escape” works through modulation of morphological traits and shows sustainable resistance to disease. Plant architectural traits have been reported to play a significant role in disease response. Therefore, exploring the genetic relationship between plant architecture and disease resistance is of importance to the understanding of plant resistance via “disease escape”. Using an F 9 population of 266 RILs (Recombinant Inbred Lines) derived from the cross of Luke × AQ24788-83, we have generated a linkage map of 631 markers on 21 chromosomes. In this study, we present the QTL identification of fourteen plant architectural characteristics and heading time from two years and analyze their genetic relationships with seven previously published QTLs to sheath blight (QSBs, QSe . cau ), including plant height (PH), the space between the flag leaf and penultimate leaf (fdR), heading date (Hd), and other traits. Twelve stable QTLs of the morphological traits were identified with good consistency across five replicates. For the seven previously published QSBs, we found no significant association with plant height. However, some of the QSBs displayed strong associations with plant architectural traits and heading date. Especially, Q fdR . cau-1AS , Q Hd . cau-2BS , Q fdR . cau-5DL , and Q fdR . cau-6BL were respectively mapped to the same regions as QSe . cau-1AS , QSe . cau-2BS , QSe . cau-5DL , and QSe . cau-6BL . Taken together, we have demonstrated that plant height did not exert a direct influence on the resistance to sheath blight conferred by the seven QSBs and that the plant architecture and heading date did exhibit a tight relationship with the resistance. Therefore, this study provides a novel evidence to help understand sheath blight resistance in wheat. In addition, the linked morphological characteristics and the generated flanking markers will facilitate breeding for resistance to sheath blight in wheat.
