Title: CFI-402257, a TTK inhibitor, effectively suppresses hepatocellular carcinoma
Authors: Cerise Yuen-Ki Chan, David Kung-Chun Chiu, Vincent Wai-Hin Yuen, Cheuk-Ting Law, Bowie Po-Yee Wong, Kelsie Lynn Thu, David Ward Cescon, Isabel Soria-Bretones, Jacinth Wing-Sum Cheu, Derek Lee, Aki Pui-Wah Tse, Misty Shuo Zhang, Kel Vin Tan, Irene Oi-Lin Ng, Pek-Lan Khong, Thomas Chung-Cheung Yau, Mark Robert Bray, Tak Wah Mak, Carmen Chak-Lui Wong
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2119514119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371652

Abstract:
Significance Hepatocellular carcinoma treatments available currently can only prolong the survival of patients for a few months and show a low response rate. Therapeutics that could provide more durable tumor suppression effect are needed. In this study, we characterized CFI-402257, a small molecule inhibitor targeting threonine tyrosine kinase (TTK), as a potential therapeutic drug in hepatocellular carcinoma. CFI-402257 disabled spindle assembly checkpoint, induced cytosolic DNA, activated stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway, and stimulated cytokines production in hepatocellular carcinoma cells, which would further promote anti-tumor immunity against hepatocellular carcinoma. Here, we demonstrate CFI-402257 is a potent therapeutic for hepatocellular carcinoma treatment, which targets hepatocellular carcinoma cells directly by inhibiting cell-cycle checkpoint functioning and indirectly by recruiting immune cells from the tumor-microenvironment. Deregulation of cell cycle is a typical feature of cancer cells. Normal cells rely on the strictly coordinated spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) to maintain the genome integrity and survive. However, cancer cells could bypass this checkpoint mechanism. In this study, we showed the clinical relevance of threonine tyrosine kinase (TTK) protein kinase, a central regulator of the SAC, in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its potential as therapeutic target. Here, we reported that a newly developed, orally active small molecule inhibitor targeting TTK (CFI-402257) effectively suppressed HCC growth and induced highly aneuploid HCC cells, DNA damage, and micronuclei formation. We identified that CFI-402257 also induced cytosolic DNA, senescence-like response, and activated DDX41-STING cytosolic DNA sensing pathway to produce senescence-associated secretory phenotypes (SASPs) in HCC cells. These SASPs subsequently led to recruitment of different subsets of immune cells (natural killer cells, CD4 + T cells, and CD8 + T cells) for tumor clearance. Our mass cytometry data illustrated the dynamic changes in the tumor-infiltrating immune populations after treatment with CFI-402257. Further, CFI-402257 improved survival in HCC-bearing mice treated with anti-PD-1, suggesting the possibility of combination treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors in HCC patients. In summary, our study characterized CFI-402257 as a potential therapeutic for HCC, both used as a single agent and in combination therapy.
