Title: Genome-wide analysis of the metallothionein gene family in cassava reveals its role in response to physiological stress through the regulation of reactive oxygen species
Authors: Yanyan Ma, Maofu Xue, Xiaofei Zhang, Songbi Chen
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Plant Biology
DOI: 10.1186/s12870-023-04174-2
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142807

Abstract:
Background Cassava ( Manihot esculenta Crantz) is widely planted in tropical and several subtropical regions in which drought, high temperatures, and other abiotic stresses occur. Metallothionein (MT) is a group of conjugated proteins with small molecular weight and rich in cysteine. These proteins play a substantial role in response to physiological stress through the regulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, the biological functions of MT genes in cassava are unknown. Results A total of 10 MeMT genes were identified in the cassava genome. The MeMTs were divided into 3 groups (Types 2–4) based on the contents and distribution of Cys residues. The MeMTs exhibited tissue-specific expression and located on 7 chromosomes. The MeMT promoters contain some hormones regulatory and stresses responsiveness elements. MeMTs were upregulated under hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) treatment and in respond to post-harvest physiological deterioration (PPD). The results were consistent with defense-responsive cis-acting elements in the MeMT promoters. Further, four of MeMTs were selected and silenced by using the virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) method to evaluate their functional characterization. The results of gene-silenced cassava suggest that MeMTs are involved in oxidative stress resistance, as ROS scavengers. Conclusion We identified the 10 MeMT genes, and explore their evolutionary relationship, conserved motif, and tissue-specific expression. The expression profiles of MeMT s under three kinds of abiotic stresses (wounding, low-temperature, and H 2 O 2 ) and during PPD were analyzed. The tissue-specific expression and the response to abiotic stresses revealed the role of MT in plant growth and development. Furthermore, silenced expression of MeMTs in cassava leaves decreased its tolerance to ROS, consistent with its predicted role as ROS scavengers. In summary, our results suggest an important role of MeMTs in response to physiological stress as well as species adaptation via the regulation of ROS homeostasis. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12870-023-04174-2.
