Title: Lyophilized Platelet–rich plasma for the management of thin endometrium and facilitation of in-vitro fertilization
Authors: Buvaneswari Gangaraju, Pradeep Mahajan, Swetha Subramanian, Ajit Kulkarni, Sanskruti Mahajan
Year: 2023
Venue: JBRA Assisted Reproduction
DOI: 10.5935/1518-0557.20220021
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10065768

Abstract:
Objective Adequate endometrial thickness has been considered an important parameter for hormonal response and blastocyst implantation in assisted reproduction therapies. While there is no consensus on the exact thickness of the endometrium considered ‘adequate,’ a thin endometrium (<7mm) has been associated with compromised outcomes in assisted reproduction therapies. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP), which is a concentrate obtained from peripheral blood, is a rich source of growth factors that play important roles in various cellular processes. The objective is to utilize lyophilized PRP (LPRP) to increase the thickness of the endometrium and enhance the outcomes of embryo transfer in women with poor response to previous in-vitro fertilization procedures Methods This study enrolled nine women between 23 and 42 years of age, with a thin endometrium, who had undergone multiple previous unsuccessful assisted reproduction procedures. All patients underwent intrauterine infusion of LPRP, followed by frozen-thawed embryo transfer after 2-3 days. Results Endometrial thickness was assessed by ultrasound 2 weeks after LPRP infusion, which showed improved thickness in all patients (range, 0.7-2.2mm). Clinical pregnancy occurred in all patients and eight out of nine patients are currently between 9 weeks and 27 weeks of gestation. Twin fetal heartbeats were not detected at the eighth week in one patient. Conclusion Infusion of LPRP was found to be beneficial to increase endometrium thickness in all patients. This regenerative technique could be considered to enhance the outcomes of assisted reproduction techniques in a minimally-invasive manner, without any side effects.
