Title: Safety and efficacy of long-acting intramuscular cabotegravir and rilpivirine in adults with HIV-1 infection: a systematic review and meta-analysis protocol
Authors: Yuan-ni Wu, Hai Yu, Lianfeng Lu, Xiaodi Li, Xiaosheng Liu, Wei Cao, Taisheng Li
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063089
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806048

Abstract:
Background Current antiretroviral regimens have, for the most part, achieved optimal antiretroviral efficacy and tolerability, transforming HIV infection from a deadly disease into a manageable chronic condition. However, adherence to daily oral drug intake remains an issue, as it is the most important determinant for sustained viral suppression and prevention of the emergence of drug-resistant viral strains. The long-acting injection antiretroviral cabotegravir and rilpivirine combination, a novel drug delivery approach, is about to revolutionise the therapy for people living with HIV. In this protocol, we aim to generate a clinically useful summary of the interventions based on their efficacy. Methods and analysis We searched the literature for eligible studies published from inception up to 16 August 2022 through PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Scopus and ClinicalTrials.gov. Two methodologically trained researchers will select the qualified studies for data extraction independently. Cochrane Risk of Bias tool will be used to assess the risk of bias in included studies. Statistical heterogeneity will be computed by Cochrane X 2 and I 2 tests. Sensitivity analysis will be conducted to evaluate the stability of the results. Publication biases will be evaluated by Begg’s and Egger’s tests. The quality of evidence will be assessed by the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation system. The RevMan V.5.3 and Stata V.14.0 software will be applied for statistical analyses. Ethics and dissemination Ethical approval will not be required for this systematic review because the data used are not linked to the individual patient. The results of this review will be disseminated by being published in a peer-reviewed journal. PROSPERO registration number CRD42022310414
