Title: Prognosticating various acute covid lung disorders from COVID-19 patient using chest CT Images
Authors: Suganya D., Kalpana R.
Year: 2023
Venue: Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence
DOI: 10.1016/j.engappai.2023.105820
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9829610

Abstract:
The global spread of coronavirus illness has surged dramatically, resulting in a catastrophic pandemic situation. Despite this, accurate screening remains a significant challenge due to difficulties in categorizing infection regions and the minuscule difference between typical pneumonia and COVID (Coronavirus Disease) pneumonia. Diagnosing COVID-19 using the Mask Regional-Convolutional Neural Network (Mask R-CNN) is proposed to classify the chest computerized tomographic (CT) images into COVID-positive and COVID-negative. Covid-19 has a direct effect on the lungs, causing damage to the alveoli, which leads to various lung complications. By fusing multi-class data, the severity level of the patients can be classified using the meta-learning few-shot learning technique with the residual network with 50 layers deep (ResNet-50) as the base classifier. It has been tested with the outcome of COVID positive chest CT image data. From these various classes, it is possible to predict the onset possibilities of acute COVID lung disorders such as sepsis, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), COVID pneumonia, COVID bronchitis, etc. The first method of classification is proposed to diagnose whether the patient is affected by COVID-19 or not; it achieves a mean Average Precision (mAP) of 91.52% and G-mean of 97.69% with 98.60% of classification accuracy. The second method of classification is proposed for the detection of various acute lung disorders based on severity provide better performance in all the four stages, the average accuracy is of 95.4%, the G-mean for multiclass achieves 94.02%, and the AUC is 93.27% compared with the cutting-edge techniques. It enables healthcare professionals to correctly detect severity for potential treatments.
