Title: Retrospective Study of 157 Patients with Otosclerosis to Evaluate Association Between Carhart Notch on the Preoperative Bone-Conduction Audiogram and Postoperative Hearing and Balance Evaluated by the Vestibular Disorders Activities of Daily Living Scale
Authors: Katarzyna Job, Agnieszka Wiatr, Hassan Awada, Maciej Wiatr
Year: 2023
Venue: Medical Science Monitor : International Medical Journal of Experimental and Clinical Research
DOI: 10.12659/MSM.939255
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890854

Abstract:
Background A Carhart notch in the pure tone audiogram can be an indicator of stapes fixation in otosclerosis. This retrospective study of 157 patients with otosclerosis aimed to evaluate the association between the presence of a Carhart notch on the preoperative bone-conduction audiogram and postoperative hearing and balance evaluated by the Vestibular Disorders Activities of Daily Living scale. Material/Methods Patients with suspected otosclerosis based on medical history and audiometric tests were considered. The analysis included 157 consecutive patients who underwent surgery in the years 2016 to 2019, in whom the diagnosis of otosclerosis was confirmed during surgery. Carhart notch was defined as an impairment in the bone conduction threshold of ≥7.5 dB for 2000 Hz frequencies above the mean thresholds at higher and lower adjacent frequencies. The Vestibular Disorders Activities of Daily Living subjective scale was used in the preoperative period and 4 and 12 months after surgery. Results The preoperative presence of Carhart notch and progressive sensorineural hearing loss were statistically significantly correlated with more common onset of tinnitus and then dizziness ( P =0.006). Preoperative vertigo was observed in patients who had Carhart notch observed in the preoperative audiometric test. This vertigo more commonly coexisted with profound sensorineural hearing loss and minor or no improvement in average values of bone conduction after surgery ( P =0.002). Conclusions Preoperative Carhart notch on audiogram and the severity of sensorineural hearing loss were associated with tinnitus and vertigo. However, preoperative Carhart notch was not associated with persistent postoperative tinnitus in patients with cochlear otosclerosis.
