Title: To what extent is the bipolar rheoencephalographic signal contaminated by scalp blood flow? A clinical study to quantify its extra and non-extracranial components
Authors: Juan J Perez
Year: 2014
Venue: BioMedical Engineering OnLine
DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-131
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4169836

Abstract:
Background Impedance plethysmography applied to the head by using a pair of electrodes attached to the scalp surface is known as bipolar Rheoencephalography or REG I and was originally proposed to measure changes in cerebral blood volume related to the heartbeat. REG I was soon discarded in favor of other REG configurations, since most of the signal was shown to be heavily contaminated by the extracranial blood flow. The main goal of this study was to identify and compare the part of the REG I signal caused by scalp blood flow with that originating from non-extracranial sources. Methods A clinical study involving thirty-six healthy volunteers was designed for this purpose. REG I was first registered in each subject under normal conditions. A pneumatic cuff was then placed around the head and was inflated to arrest the scalp blood flow and a second REG I was recorded. Finally, a third REG I was taken immediately after cuff deflation. Results The REG I signal is attenuated, but not extinguished, during cuff inflation in a wide subject-dependent range ratio from 0.12 to 0.68 (0.37 ± 0.15). The residual REG I signal has a waveform that is markedly different from that obtained before cuff inflation, which supports the hypothesis of the intracranial origin of the residual REG I signal. Additionally, an increase of 22% in REG I amplitude was observed when the head cuff was deflated. Conclusions Waveform differences between extra and non-extracranial components are significant and these differences could be used in a method to distinguish one from the other. However, a significant part of the REG I signal is caused by a non-extracranial source and, therefore, it should not be used as a footprint of the extracranial blood flow.
