Title: Smartwatch-derived heart rate variability: a head-to-head comparison with the gold standard in cardiovascular disease
Authors: Fabian Theurl, Michael Schreinlechner, Nikolay Sappler, Michael Toifl, Theresa Dolejsi, Florian Hofer, Celine Massmann, Christian Steinbring, Silvia Komarek, Kurt Mölgg, Benjamin Dejakum, Christian Böhme, Rudolf Kirchmair, Sebastian Reinstadler, Axel Bauer
Year: 2023
Venue: European Heart Journal. Digital Health
DOI: 10.1093/ehjdh/ztad022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232241

Abstract:
Abstract Aims We aimed to investigate the concordance between heart rate variability (HRV) derived from the photoplethysmographic (PPG) signal of a commercially available smartwatch compared with the gold-standard high-resolution electrocardiogram (ECG)-derived HRV in patients with cardiovascular disease. Methods and results We prospectively enrolled 104 survivors of acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction, 129 patients after an ischaemic stroke, and 30 controls. All subjects underwent simultaneous recording of a smartwatch (Garmin vivoactive 4; Garmin Ltd, Olathe, KS, USA)-derived PPG signal and a high-resolution (1000 Hz) ECG for 30 min under standardized conditions. HRV measures in time and frequency domain, non-linear measures, as well as deceleration capacity (DC) were calculated according to previously published technologies from both signals. Lin’s concordance correlation coefficient ( ρ c ) between smartwatch-derived and ECG-based HRV markers was used as a measure of diagnostic accuracy. A very high concordance within the whole study cohort was observed for the mean heart rate ( ρ c = 0.9998), standard deviation of the averages of normal-to-normal (NN) intervals in all 5min segments (SDANN; ρ c = 0.9617), and very low frequency power (VLF power; ρ c = 0.9613). In contrast, detrended fluctuation analysis (DF-α1; ρ c = 0.5919) and the square mean root of the sum of squares of adjacent NN-interval differences (rMSSD; ρ c = 0.6617) showed only moderate concordance. Conclusion Smartwatch-derived HRV provides a practical alternative with excellent accuracy compared with ECG-based HRV for global markers and those characterizing lower frequency components. However, caution is warranted with HRV markers that predominantly assess short-term variability. Graphical Abstract Graphical Abstract
