Title: Ketogenic diet and ketamine infusion treatment to target chronic persistent eating disorder psychopathology in anorexia nervosa: a pilot study
Authors: Lori Calabrese, Barbara Scolnick, Beth Zupec-Kania, Caroline Beckwith, Kayla Costello, Guido K. W. Frank
Year: 2022
Venue: Eating and Weight Disorders
DOI: 10.1007/s40519-022-01455-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803738

Abstract:
Purpose Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a severe psychiatric disorder, and shape and weight concerns are often chronic despite weight normalization. No specific treatments exist for those preoccupations that interfere with recovery and trigger relapse. A case study using a ketogenic diet followed by ketamine infusions led to sustained remission in one patient with chronic AN. Here we conducted an open-label trial to test whether this response could be replicated. Methods Five adults weight recovered from AN but with persistent eating disorder thoughts and behaviors adopted a therapeutic ketogenic diet (TKD) aimed at maintaining weight. After sustaining nutritional ketosis, participants received six ketamine infusions and were followed over 6 months. Results All participants completed the study protocol without significant adverse effects. Two participants maintained TKD for 8 weeks prior to ketamine infusions due to good behavioral response and remained on TKD. Three participants received TKD for 4 weeks prior to and during ketamine, then tapered off after the final infusion. The group showed significant improvements on the Clinical Impairment Assessment ( p = 0.008), Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDEQ) Global score ( p = 0.006), EDEQ-Eating Concerns ( p = 0.005), EDEQ-Shape Concerns ( p = 0.016), EDEQ-Weight Concerns ( p = 0.032), Eating Disorders Recovery Questionnaire (EDRQ) Acceptance of Self and Body (0.027) and EDRQ-Social and Emotional Connection ( p = 0.001). Weight remained stable, except for one participant who relapsed 4 months after treatment and off TKD. Conclusion This novel treatment appears to be safe and effective for adults with chronic AN-related psychopathology. The results from this open trial support that there are specific neurobiological underpinnings of AN that can be normalized using TKD and ketamine. Level of evidence Level IV, multiple time series with intervention Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40519-022-01455-x.
