Title: LAPTM5 mediates immature B cell apoptosis and B cell tolerance by regulating the WWP2-PTEN-AKT pathway
Authors: Ying Wang, Jun Liu, Chizuru Akatsu, Runyun Zhang, Hai Zhang, Han Zhu, Kangwei Liu, Han-Ying Zhu, Qing Min, Xin Meng, Chaoqun Cui, Yue Tang, Meiping Yu, Yaxuan Li, Xiaoqian Feng, Hao Wei, Zichao Wen, Sihan Ji, Martin G. Weigert, Takeshi Tsubata, Ji-Yang Wang
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2205629119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457450

Abstract:
Significance BCR cross-linking has been shown to trigger a signal transduction cascade that involves coordinated functions of kinases, adaptor molecules, and phosphatases. The present study demonstrates that BCR signaling in immature B cells is in part regulated by a lysosomal protein, LAPTM5. Our results uncover a previously unidentified LAPTM5-WWP2-PTEN cascade that regulates immature B cell apoptosis and contributes to B cell tolerance. Elimination of autoreactive developing B cells is an important mechanism to prevent autoantibody production. However, how B cell receptor (BCR) signaling triggers apoptosis of immature B cells remains poorly understood. We show that BCR stimulation up-regulates the expression of the lysosomal-associated transmembrane protein 5 (LAPTM5), which in turn triggers apoptosis of immature B cells through two pathways. LAPTM5 causes BCR internalization, resulting in decreased phosphorylation of SYK and ERK. In addition, LAPTM5 targets the E3 ubiquitin ligase WWP2 for lysosomal degradation, resulting in the accumulation of its substrate PTEN. Elevated PTEN levels suppress AKT phosphorylation, leading to increased FOXO1 expression and up-regulation of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip1 and the proapoptotic molecule BIM. In vivo, LAPTM5 is involved in the elimination of autoreactive B cells and its deficiency exacerbates autoantibody production. Our results reveal a previously unidentified mechanism that contributes to immature B cell apoptosis and B cell tolerance.
