Title: Characterizing the transition from immune response to tissue repair after myocardial infarction by multiparametric imaging
Authors: Annika Hess, Tobias Borchert, Tobias L. Ross, Frank M. Bengel, James T. Thackeray
Year: 2022
Venue: Basic Research in Cardiology
DOI: 10.1007/s00395-022-00922-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8917105

Abstract:
Persistent inflammation following myocardial infarction (MI) precipitates adverse outcome including acute ventricular rupture and chronic heart failure. Molecular imaging allows longitudinal assessment of immune cell activity in the infarct territory and predicts severity of remodeling. We utilized a multiparametric imaging platform to assess the immune response and cardiac healing following MI in mice. Suppression of circulating macrophages prior to MI paradoxically resulted in higher total leukocyte content in the heart, demonstrated by increased CXC motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) positron emission tomography imaging. This supported the formation of a thrombus overlying the injured region, as identified by magnetic resonance imaging. The injured and thrombotic region in macrophage depeleted mice subsequently showed active calcification, as evidenced by accumulation of 18 F-fluoride and by cardiac computed tomography. Importantly, macrophage suppression triggered a prolonged inflammatory response confirmed by post-mortem tissue analysis that was associated with higher mortality from ventricular rupture early after occlusion and with increased infarct size and worse chronic contractile function at 6 weeks after reperfusion. These findings establish a molecular imaging toolbox for monitoring the interplay between adverse immune response and tissue repair after MI. This may serve as a foundation for development and monitoring of novel targeted therapies that may include immune modulation and endogenous healing support. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00395-022-00922-x.
