Title: ICON-P – A double-blind evaluation of quality improvements with individualized CONstraints from low-cost knowledge-based radiation therapy planning in prostate cancer
Authors: Saheli Saha, S Sriram Prasath, Balakrishnan Arun, Smita Jagadish Kalita, Niranjan Elavarasan, Debashree Guha Adhya, Arnab Sarkar, Moses Arunsingh, Santam Chakraborty, Indranil Mallick
Year: 2023
Venue: Technical Innovations & Patient Support in Radiation Oncology
DOI: 10.1016/j.tipsro.2023.100206
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232660

Abstract:
Highlights • A library of prior approved prostate radiotherapy plans was used to generate individualized dose-constraints through a web-based app. • A double-blind assessment found that the majority of dose-contraints could be achieved. • Volumes receiving clinically important doses and equivalent uniform doses were better than the original plan. • Quality improvements in planning were achieved in a resource-poor setting using a free and simple knowledge-based app. Purpose /Objective(S) A low-cost, prior knowledge-based individualized dose-constraint generator for organs-at-risk has been developed for prostate cancer radiation therapy (RT) planning. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the feasibility and improvements in organs-at-risk (OAR) doses in prostate cancer RT planning using this tool served on a web application. Materials And Methods A set of previously treated prostate cancer cases planned and treated with generic constraints were replanned using individualized dose constraints derived from a library of cases with similar volumes of target, OAR, and overlap regions and served on the web-based application. The goal was to assess the reduction in mean dose, specified dose volumes (V59Gy, V56Gy, V53Gy, V47Gy, and V40Gy), and generalized equivalent uniform dose (gEUD) to the rectum and bladder. Planners and assessors were blinded to the initial achieved doses and penalties. Sample size estimation was based on improvement in V53Gy for the rectum and bladder with a paired evaluation. Results Twenty-four patients were replanned. All the plans had a PTV D95 of at least 97% of the prescribed dose. The individualized OAR constraints could be met for 87.5% of patients for all dose levels. The mean dose, V59Gy, V53Gy, and V47Gy for the bladder was reduced by 7.5 Gy, 1.12%, 5.51%, and 10.53% respectively. Similarly for the rectum, the mean dose, V59Gy, V53Gy, V47Gy and was reduced by 5.5 Gy, 4.34%, 6.97%, and 11.61% respectively. All dose reductions were statistically significant. The gEUD of the bladder was reduced by 2.47 Gy (p < 0.001) and the rectum by 3.21 Gy (p < 0.001). Conclusion Treatment planning based on individualized dose constraints served on a web application is feasible and leads to improvement at clinically important dose volumes in prostate cancer RT planning. This application can be served publicly for improvements in RT plan quality.
