Title: Humoral and cellular immune response after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 messenger ribonucleic acid vaccination in heart transplant recipients: An observational study in France
Authors: Alice Casenaz, Sandrine Grosjean, Ludwig-Serge Aho-Glélé, Jean-Baptiste Bour, Christelle Auvray, Catherine Manoha
Year: 2022
Venue: Frontiers in Medicine
DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2022.1027708
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9643719

Abstract:
Introduction Heart transplant (HT) recipients have a high risk of developing severe COVID-19. Immunoglobulin G antibodies are considered to provide protective immunity and T-cell activity is thought to confer protection from severe disease. However, data on T-cell response to mRNA vaccination in a context of HT remains limited. Methods In 96 HT patients, a IFN-γ release assay and an anti-Spike antibody test were used to evaluate the ability of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines to generate cellular and humoral immune response. Blood samples were collected few weeks to 7 months after vaccination. Multiple fractional polynomial and LASSO regression models were used to define predictors of T-cell response. Results Three to five months after vaccination, three doses of vaccine induced a positive SARS-CoV-2 T-cell response in 47% of recipients and a positive humoral response in 83% of recipients, 11.1% of patients remained negative for both T and B cell responses. Three doses were necessary to reach high IgG response levels (>590 BAU/mL), which were obtained in a third of patients. Immunity was greatly amplified in the group who had three vaccine doses plus COVID-19 infection. Conclusion Our study revealed that T and B immunity decreases over time, leading us to suggest the interest of a booster vaccination at 5 months after the third dose. Moreover, a close follow-up of immune response following vaccination is needed to ensure ongoing immune protection. We also found that significant predictors of higher cellular response were infection and active smoking, regardless of immunosuppressive treatment with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).
