Title: Carcass trait, meat yield and quality characteristics of recently-synthesized Woori Heukdon and commercial LYD pigs under identical rearing condition
Authors: Van-Ba Hoa, Dong-Heon Song, Ye-Jin Min, Kuk-Hwan Seol, Sun-Moon Kang, Hyun-Wook Kim, Sung-Sil Moon, Soo-Hyun Cho
Year: 2023
Venue: Animal Bioscience
DOI: 10.5713/ab.22.0304
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10164539

Abstract:
Objective For decades, LYD ([Landrace×Yorkshire] ♀×Duroc ♂) pigs are the most commonly-used commercial breed for meat production in Korea. Recently, due to the increasing demand for premium pork, the National Institute of Animal Science (Korea) has synthesized a novel pig breed named Woori Heukdon (WHD). This study aimed at comparing the carcass traits, meat yield and quality characteristics between the LYD and WHD pigs under identical rearing condition. Methods The WHD and LYD pigs (n = 15 each) were reared under identical conditions and fed the same commercial diet until reaching recommended market weight (100 to 120 kg). After slaughter, the carcasses were evaluated for traits and meat yield, and the meat quality was assessed on shoulder butt and belly cuts. Results Although no significant differences (p>0.05) occurred in slaughter weight between two pig types, WHD had a lower meat yield (by about 6 kg corresponding to approximately 7%) compared to the LYD pigs (p<0.05). The WHD had a higher fat content (by 4.26% and 13.52% in the shoulder butt and belly, respectively) compared to those of LYD pigs (p<0.05). The WHD meat showed a lower cooking loss and higher a* (redness) value (p<0.05). The WHD belly had a significantly (p<0.05) higher oleic acid content and concentrations of nonanal, octanal and decanal associated with fatty odor while, the LYD meat had a higher number of pyrazines associated with roasty odor. Regarding sensory quality, higher flavor, juiciness, and acceptability higher scores were given for the WHD meat than for the LYD meat (p<0.05). Conclusion Under identical rearing conditions the WHD exhibited a better meat quality and sensory properties. However, the use of this diet resulted in a high fat level that may be associated with high trimming loss for the WHD.
