Title: Biochemical Profile and In Vitro Therapeutic Properties of Two Euhalophytes, Halocnemum strobilaceum Pall. and Suaeda fruticosa (L.) Forske., Grown in the Sabkha Ecosystem in the Algerian Sahara
Authors: Noura Gheraissa, Ahmed Elkhalifa Chemsa, Nezar Cherrada, Ebru Erol, Eman Ramadan Elsharkawy, Djilani Ghemam-Amara, Soumeia Zeghoud, Abdelkrim Rebiai, Mohammed Messaoudi, Barbara Sawicka, Maria Atanassova, Maged S. Abdel-Kader
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083580
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141351

Abstract:
This study reports the biochemical profile and in vitro biological activities of the aerial part of two shrubs: Halocnemum strobilaceum and Suaeda fruticosa , a halophytes species native to saline habitats. The biomass was evaluated by determining its physiological properties and approximate composition. Hydro-methanolic extracts from Halocnemum strobilaceum and Suaeda fruticosa have been investigated for the inhibition of bacterial growth, the protection of proteins (albumin) from denaturation, and cytotoxicity to hepatocellular carcinomas (Huh-7 and HepG2). Their antioxidant activity was evaluated by five tests, including one that examined their ability to inhibit hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 )-induced hemolysis. The profile of their phenolic compounds was also determined. These two euhalophytes had a high moisture content, high levels of photosynthetic pigments, elevated levels of ash and protein, low oxidative damage indices, MDA (Malondialdehyde) and proline, and low lipids levels. Their content was also characterized by a moderate acidity with good electrical conductivity. They contained abundant levels of phytochemicals and varied phenolic contents. Reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) analysis revealed the presence of caffeic acid, p -coumaric acid, rutin, and quercetin in both plant extracts. On the pharmaceutical level, the two euhalophytes had anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antioxidant, and cytotoxic properties, and therefore it was recommended to isolate and identify biologically active compounds from these plants and evaluate them in vivo.
