Title: Prevalence and prognostic implications of hypertensive response to exercise in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ☆
Authors: Dai-Yin Lu, Ioannis Ventoulis, Hongyun Liu, Bereketeab Haileselassie, Iraklis Pozios, Hsin-Yueh Liang, Lars L. Sorensen, Marco Canepa, Nicole Bavaro, Susan Phillip, M. Roselle Abraham, Theodore P. Abraham
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Cardiology. Cardiovascular Risk and Prevention
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcrp.2022.200166
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975236

Abstract:
Objective Hypertensive response to exercise (HRE) is observed in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) with normal resting blood pressure (BP). However, the prevalence or prognostic implications of HRE in HCM remain unclear. Methods In this study, normotensive HCM subjects were enrolled. HRE was defined as systolic BP > 210 mmHg in men or >190 mmHg in women, or diastolic BP > 90 mmHg, or an increase in diastolic BP > 10 mmHg during treadmill exercise. All participants were followed for subsequent development of hypertension, atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF), sustained ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation (VT/VF), and all-cause death. Six hundred and eighty HCM patients were screened. Results 347 patients had baseline hypertension, and 333 patients were baseline normotensive. 132 (40%) of the 333 patients had HRE. HRE was associated with female sex, lower body mass index and milder left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Exercise duration and metabolic equivalents were similar between patients with or without HRE, but the HRE group had higher peak heart rate (HR), better chronotropic response and more rapid HR recovery. Conversely, non-HRE patients were more likely to exhibit chronotropic incompetence and hypotensive response to exercise. After a mean follow-up of 3.4 years, patients with and without HRE had similar risks of progression to hypertension, AF, HF, sustained VT/VF or death. Conclusion HRE is common in normotensive HCM patients during exercise. HRE did not carry higher risks of future hypertension or cardiovascular adverse outcomes. Conversely, the absence of HRE was associated with chronotropic incompetence and hypotensive response to exercise. Highlights • Hypertensive response during exercise (HRE) is common in normotensive HCM patients. • HRE did not carry higher risks of future hypertension or cardiovascular adverse outcomes. • On the contrary, absence of HRE was associated with chronotropic incompetence and hypotensive response to exercise in normotensive HCM patients.
