Title: Bowen's disease on two different unrelated anatomical sites (genitals and nail) in succession in an immunocompromised patient
Authors: Saba Mohammed Musaddique Ansari, Ankit Gupta, Chitra Shivanand Nayak
Year: 2022
Venue: Indian Journal of Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS
DOI: 10.4103/ijstd.ijstd_2_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9891023

Abstract:
Bowen's disease (BD) is a premalignant condition. Its exact etiology is unknown but chronic arsenic and sun exposure, and human papillomavirus infection is known predisposing factors. Pigmented lesions of BD represent 1.7%–5.5% of all BD cases. BD in the nail unit is challenging due to its varied clinical presentations such as fissure, ulceration, warty lesion, paronychia, onychocryptosis, and nail dystrophy. We present the case of a 43-year-old married, immunocompromised male (HIV), with a CD 4 count of 478, on tenofovir, atazanavir boosted with ritonavir regimen, known diabetic presented with multiple asymptomatic discrete, rounded, hyperpigmented verrucous papules on both surfaces of shaft of penis and scrotum and a single, 4 cm × 3 cm, irregular, smooth surfaced, hyperpigmented plaque, on the base of the penis extending to the upper part of the scrotum of 1-year duration with history of multiple unprotected sexual exposures with unknown female partners. Regional lymphadenopathy and systemic complaints were absent. Biopsy from hyperpigmented verrucous papule and hyperpigmented plaque was consistent with verruca vulgaris and pigmented Bowen's disease, respectively. The patient was lost to follow-up. Ten months later, he presented with longitudinal melanonychia with a subungual hyperpigmented mass protruding beyond the distal nail margin near the lateral nail fold of the right middle finger nail with an absent Hutchinson's sign. Longitudinal excisional biopsy of nail lesion was consistent with BD. He was started on 5-fluorouracil 5% for BD of genitals and podophyllin application for verruca vulgaris with remarkable improvement in both the lesions and there is no recurrence of nail lesion after 9 months of excision.
