Title: Cumulative Risk Meets Inter-Individual Variability: Probabilistic Concentration Addition of Complex Mixture Exposures in a Population-Based Human In Vitro Model
Authors: Suji Jang, Lucie C. Ford, Ivan Rusyn, Weihsueh A. Chiu
Year: 2022
Venue: Toxics
DOI: 10.3390/toxics10100549
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9611413

Abstract:
Although humans are continuously exposed to complex chemical mixtures in the environment, it has been extremely challenging to investigate the resulting cumulative risks and impacts. Recent studies proposed the use of “new approach methods,” in particular in vitro assays, for hazard and dose–response evaluation of mixtures. We previously found, using five human cell-based assays, that concentration addition (CA), the usual default approach to calculate cumulative risk, is mostly accurate to within an order of magnitude. Here, we extend these findings to further investigate how cell-based data can be used to quantify inter-individual variability in CA. Utilizing data from testing 42 Superfund priority chemicals separately and in 8 defined mixtures in a human cell-based population-wide in vitro model, we applied CA to predict effective concentrations for cytotoxicity for each individual, for “typical” (median) and “sensitive” (first percentile) members of the population, and for the median-to-sensitive individual ratio (defined as the toxicodynamic variability factor, TDVF). We quantified the accuracy of CA with the Loewe Additivity Index (LAI). We found that LAI varies more between different mixtures than between different individuals, and that predictions of the population median are generally more accurate than predictions for the “sensitive” individual or the TDVF. Moreover, LAI values were generally <1, indicating that the mixtures were more potent than predicted by CA. Together with our previous studies, we posit that new approach methods data from human cell-based in vitro assays, including multiple phenotypes in diverse cell types and studies in a population-wide model, can fill critical data gaps in cumulative risk assessment, but more sophisticated models of in vitro mixture additivity and bioavailability may be needed. In the meantime, because simple CA models may underestimate potency by an order of magnitude or more, either whole-mixture testing in vitro or, alternatively, more stringent benchmarks of cumulative risk indices (e.g., lower hazard index) may be needed to ensure public health protection.
