Title: A call for immediate climate action in anesthesiology: routine use of minimal or metabolic fresh gas flow reduces our ecological footprint
Authors: Marie-Luise Rübsam, Philippe Kruse, Yvonne Dietzler, Miriam Kropf, Birgit Bette, Alexander Zarbock, Se-Chan Kim, Christian Hönemann
Year: 2023
Venue: Canadian Journal of Anaesthesia
DOI: 10.1007/s12630-022-02393-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066075

Abstract:
Purpose Climate change is a global threat, and inhalational anesthetics contribute to global warming by altering the photophysical properties of the atmosphere. On a global perspective, there is a fundamental need to reduce perioperative morbidity and mortality and to provide safe anesthesia. Thus, inhalational anesthetics will remain a significant source of emissions in the foreseeable future. It is, therefore, necessary to develop and implement strategies to minimize the consumption of inhalational anesthetics to reduce the ecological footprint of inhalational anesthesia. Source We have integrated recent findings concerning climate change, characteristics of established inhalational anesthetics, complex simulative calculations, and clinical expertise to propose a practical and safe strategy to practice ecologically responsible anesthesia using inhalational anesthetics. Principal findings Comparing the global warming potential of inhalational anesthetics, desflurane is about 20 times more potent than sevoflurane and five times more potent than isoflurane. Balanced anesthesia using low or minimal fresh gas flow (≤ 1 L·min -1 ) during the wash-in period and metabolic fresh gas flow (0.35 L·min -1 ) during steady-state maintenance reduces CO 2 emissions and costs by approximately 50%. Total intravenous anesthesia and locoregional anesthesia represent further options for lowering greenhouse gas emissions. Conclusion Responsible anesthetic management choices should prioritize patient safety and consider all available options. If inhalational anesthesia is chosen, the use of minimal or metabolic fresh gas flow reduces the consumption of inhalational anesthetics significantly. Nitrous oxide should be avoided entirely as it contributes to depletion of the ozone layer, and desflurane should only be used in justified exceptional cases.
