Title: Characterization of a unique polysaccharide monooxygenase from the plant pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae
Authors: Alejandra Martinez-D’Alto, Xia Yan, Tyler C. Detomasi, Richard I. Sayler, William C. Thomas, Nicholas J. Talbot, Michael A. Marletta
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215426120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974505

Abstract:
Significance Blast disease is a worldwide concern affecting crops like rice and wheat. During plant penetration, the causative fungus Magnaporthe oryzae secretes a polysaccharide monooxygenase ( Mo PMO9A). Here, we show that Mo PMO9A is active on (1→3, 1→4)-β-glucans present in the cell wall of cereal-type plants, hydroxylating the C4 position of the glycosidic bond and using either oxygen or hydrogen peroxide as a cosubstrate. This PMO has a second domain of unknown function that is highly conserved within a subset of PMOs and is essential for PMO activity. Moreover, Mo PMO9A deletion results in reduced pathogenicity in rice. Taken together, this work provides insight into the biochemistry of Mo PMO9A and the domain architecture of PMOs, supporting its role in polysaccharide degradation during plant infection. Blast disease in cereal plants is caused by the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and accounts for a significant loss in food crops. At the outset of infection, expression of a putative polysaccharide monooxygenase ( Mo PMO9A) is increased. Mo PMO9A contains a catalytic domain predicted to act on cellulose and a carbohydrate-binding domain that binds chitin. A sequence similarity network of the Mo PMO9A family AA9 showed that 220 of the 223 sequences in the Mo PMO9A-containing cluster of sequences have a conserved unannotated region with no assigned function. Expression and purification of the full length and two Mo PMO9A truncations, one containing the catalytic domain and the domain of unknown function (DUF) and one with only the catalytic domain, were carried out. In contrast to other AA9 polysaccharide monooxygenases (PMOs), Mo PMO9A is not active on cellulose but showed activity on cereal-derived m ixed (1→3, 1→4)- β -D- g lucans (MBG). Moreover, the DUF is required for activity. Mo PMO9A exhibits activity consistent with C4 oxidation of the polysaccharide and can utilize either oxygen or hydrogen peroxide as a cosubstrate. It contains a predicted 3-dimensional fold characteristic of other PMOs. The DUF is predicted to form a coiled-coil with six absolutely conserved cysteines acting as a zipper between the two α-helices. Mo PMO9A substrate specificity and domain architecture are different from previously characterized AA9 PMOs. The results, including a gene ontology analysis, support a role for Mo PMO9A in MBG degradation during plant infection. Consistent with this analysis, deletion of Mo PMO9A results in reduced pathogenicity.
