Title: Single-cell sequencing identifies differentiation-related markers for molecular classification and recurrence prediction of PitNET
Authors: Qilin Zhang, Boyuan Yao, Xin Long, Zhengyuan Chen, Min He, Yue Wu, Nidan Qiao, Zengyi Ma, Zhao Ye, Yichao Zhang, Shun Yao, Ye Wang, Haixia Cheng, Hong Chen, Hongying Ye, Yongfei Wang, Yimin Li, Jianhua Chen, Zhaoyun Zhang, Fan Guo, Yao Zhao
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100934
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975294

Abstract:
Summary Pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET) is one of the most common intracranial tumors with variable recurrence rate. Currently, the recurrence prediction is unsatisfying and can be improved by understanding the cellular origins and differentiation status. Here, to comprehensively reveal the origin of PitNET, we perform comparative analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from 3 anterior pituitary glands and 21 PitNETs. We identify distinct genes representing major subtypes of well and poorly differentiated PitNETs in each lineage. To further verify the predictive value of differentiation biomarkers, we include an independent cohort of 800 patients with an average follow-up of 7.2 years. In both PIT1 and TPIT lineages, poorly differentiated groups show significantly higher recurrence rates while well-differentiated groups show higher recurrence rates in SF1 lineage. Our findings reveal the possible origin and differentiation status of PitNET based on which new differentiation classification is proposed and verified to predict tumor recurrence. Graphical abstract Highlights • Trajectory analysis in the APG reveals a progenitor PIT1 lineage cluster • The comparative analysis evaluates the differentiation status of PitNET • The differentiation-related markers could help predict the long-term recurrence Zhang et al. provide a comparative analysis between anterior pituitary glands (APGs) and pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) at single-cell resolution. The differentiation status of PitNETs is evaluated, and the recurrence prediction values of differentiation-related markers are validated in an independent cohort of 800 patients.
