Title: Rib Fixation for Multiple Rib Fractures: Healthcare Professionals Perceived Barriers and Facilitators to Clinical Implementation
Authors: Inge Spronk, Suzanne F. M. Van Wijck, Esther M. M. Van Lieshout, Michael H. J. Verhofstad, Jonne T. H. Prins, Mathieu M. E. Wijffels, Suzanne Polinder, Dagmar I. Vos, Taco J. Blokhuis, Erik R. De Loos, Elvira R. Flikweert, Albert F. Pull ter Gunne, Akkie N. Ringburg, W. Richard Spanjersberg, Gerben Van der Bij, Floortje C. Van Eijck, Pieter J. Van Huijstee, Gust Van Montfort, Jefrey Vermeulen, Dagmar I. Vos
Year: 2023
Venue: World Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00268-023-06973-y
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229739

Abstract:
Background Surgical stabilization of rib fractures (SSRF) is associated with improved respiratory symptoms and shorter intensive care admission in patients with flail chest. For multiple rib fractures, the benefit of SSRF remains a topic of debate. This study investigated barriers and facilitators of healthcare professionals to SSRF as treatment for multiple traumatic rib fractures. Methods Dutch healthcare professionals were asked to complete an adapted version of the Measurement Instrument for Determinants of Innovations questionnaire to identify barriers and facilitators of SSRF. If ≥ 20% of participants responded negatively, the item was considered a barrier, and if ≥ 80% responded positively, the item was considered a facilitator. Results Sixty-one healthcare professionals participated; 32 surgeons, 19 non-surgical physicians, and 10 residents. The median experience was 10 years (P 25 –P 75 4–12). Sixteen barriers and two facilitators for SSRF in multiple rib fractures were identified. Barriers included lack of knowledge, experience, evidence on (cost-)effectiveness, and the implication of more operations and higher medical costs. Facilitators were the assumption that SSRF alleviates respiratory problems and the feeling that surgeons are supported by colleagues for SSRF. Non-surgeons and residents reported more and several different barriers than surgeons (surgeons: 14; non-surgical physicians: 20; residents: 21; p < 0.001). Conclusion For adequate implementation of SSRF in patients with multiple rib fractures, implementation strategies should address the identified barriers. Especially, improved clinical experience and scientific knowledge of healthcare professionals, and high-level evidence on the (cost-) effectiveness of SSRF potentially increase its use and acceptance. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00268-023-06973-y.
