Title: Liver Transplantation for T2 Hepatocellular Carcinoma during the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Novel Model Balancing Individual Benefit against Healthcare Resources
Authors: Umberto Cillo, Alessandro Vitale, Michael L. Volk, Anna Chiara Frigo, Paolo Feltracco, Annamaria Cattelan, Giuseppina Brancaccio, Giuseppe Feltrin, Paolo Angeli, Patrizia Burra, Sara Lonardi, Silvia Trapani, Massimo Cardillo
Year: 2021
Venue: Cancers
DOI: 10.3390/cancers13061416
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8003429

Abstract:
Simple Summary Using Italian national data from more than 8000 patients, we proposed a novel model calculating the net benefit of liver transplantation (individual benefit minus harm to others on the waiting list) in T2 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients in different scenarios of transplant activity reduction. Our results show that the transplant net benefit is closely related to the decrease in the number of organs, but it is also higher in T2 HCC patients than in non-HCC patients with the same model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) scores. Our model supports liver transplantation for T2 HCC with the highest net benefit also during crises such as COVID-19. Abstract The COVID-19 pandemic caused temporary drops in the supply of organs for transplantation, leading to renewed debate about whether T2 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients should receive priority during these times. The aim of this study was to provide a quantitative model to aid decision-making in liver transplantation for T2 HCC. We proposed a novel ethical framework where the individual transplant benefit for a T2 HCC patient should outweigh the harm to others on the waiting list, determining a “net benefit”, to define appropriate organ allocation. This ethical framework was then translated into a quantitative Markov model including Italian averages for waiting list characteristics, donor resources, mortality, and transplant rates obtained from a national prospective database (n = 8567 patients). The net benefit of transplantation in a T2 HCC patient in a usual situation varied from 0 life months with a model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score of 15, to 34 life months with a MELD score of 40, while it progressively decreased with acute organ shortage during a pandemic (i.e., with a 50% decrease in organs, the net benefit varied from 0 life months with MELD 30, to 12 life months with MELD 40). Our study supports the continuation of transplantation for T2 HCC patients during crises such as COVID-19; however, the focus needs to be on those T2 HCC patients with the highest net survival benefit.
