Title: Prediction of Prognosis in Geriatric Palliative Care Patients with Diagnosed Malnutrition: A Comparison of Nutritional Assessment Parameters
Authors: Özlem Deligöz, Osman Ekinci
Year: 2022
Venue: Clinical Interventions in Aging
DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S380536
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805734

Abstract:
Objective Malnutrition is very commonly encountered in palliative care centers (PCC), especially in geriatric patients. It is known that development of malnutrition increases morbidity and mortality. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effectiveness of commonly used nutritional assessment parameters in predicting prognosis in geriatric patients diagnosed in PCC with malnutrition. Methods Our study included 1451 patients aged ≥65 years, who were diagnosed with malnutrition in PCC between 2016–2020 and did not yet start receiving nutritional support. Demographic data, comorbidities, The Nutritional Risk Screening 2002 (NRS-2002), body mass index (BMI), albumin, prealbumin and C-reactive protein (CRP) values of the patients were recorded. Prognostic course was evaluated by dividing the patients into 3 groups, namely mortal patients during PCC follow-up, patients transferred from PCC to Intensive Care (ICU) and patients discharged to home from PCC. Results Logistic Regression analysis showed that low albumin levels affected transfer to ICU (P<0.05). Elevated NRS-2002 and low albumin and prealbumin levels were found to be factors affecting mortality (P<0.05). Areas under the ROC Curve were calculated to attain patients’ differential diagnosis. The area under the ROC Curve of low albumin in patients transferred to ICU was found to be significant (P<0.05). In the differential diagnosis of patients with mortal course, the area under the ROC Curve of low albumin and prealbumin and high CRP was found to be significant (P<0.05). Conclusion We found that BMI had no prognostic predictive effects in geriatric PCC patients with malnutrition. We concluded that NRS-2002 and high CRP and low albumin and prealbumin can be used to predict mortality. In addition, we found that low albumin indicates a poor prognosis and predicts patients to be transferred to ICU.
