Title: Midterm Outcomes of Intramedullary Fixation of Intertrochanteric Femoral Fractures Using Compression Hip Nails: Radiologic and Clinical Results
Authors: You-Sung Suh, Jae-Hwi Nho, Min Gon Song, Dong Woo Lee, Byung-Woong Jang
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinics in Orthopedic Surgery
DOI: 10.4055/cios22149
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232309

Abstract:
Background Various implants are used to treat intertrochanteric fractures. However, the optimal implant to stabilize intertrochanteric femoral fractures is still a matter of debate. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the midterm outcomes of patients treated using compression hip nails (CHNs). Methods Between March 2013 and April 2018, 164 patients with intertrochanteric femoral fractures who were treated with internal fixation using CHNs were enrolled in this study. The mean age of the patients was 79.6 years. We retrospectively collected and estimated information such as reduction state, implant position, operation time, blood loss, hospital stay, time to achieve union, clinical scores (Harris hip score [HHS] and EuroQol five-dimensional [EQ-5D]), intraoperative complications (such as lag jamming and drill bit breakage), failure of fixation, avascular necrosis, and surgical site infection. Results The mean follow-up period was 39.69 months. Eight percent of the patients required an open reduction. The mean operation time was 131 minutes, the mean blood loss was 221.19 mL, the mean hospital stay was 20.66 days, and the average time to union was 18 weeks. Intraoperative complications included 8 cases of breakage of the drill bit while making distal holes. The failure rate was 3.7% and revision surgery was performed in 6 cases (for cut-out in 5 and pull-out of the lag screw in 1). Asymptomatic venous thromboembolism occurred in 2 cases and hematoma requiring intervention occurred in 1 case. There were no other complications such as avascular necrosis, infection, and lateral irritation. At the 2-year follow-up, the averages of HHS and EQ-5D were 71.54 and 0.68, respectively. Conclusions Among the implants used to treat intertrochanteric femoral fractures, CHNs had a surgical failure of 3.7% and showed good radiologic and clinical results.
