Title: Barriers and facilitators to infection control at a hospital in northern India: a qualitative study
Authors: Anna K. Barker, Kelli Brown, Dawd Siraj, Muneeb Ahsan, Sharmila Sengupta, Nasia Safdar
Year: 2017
Venue: Antimicrobial Resistance and Infection Control
DOI: 10.1186/s13756-017-0189-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5385016

Abstract:
Background Hospital acquired infections occur at higher rates in low- and middle-income countries, like India, than in high-income countries. Effective implementation of infection control practices is crucial to reducing the transmission of hospital acquired infections at hospitals worldwide. Yet, no comprehensive assessments of the barriers to sustained, successful implementation of hospital interventions have been performed in Indian healthcare settings to date. The Systems Engineering Initiative for Patient Safety (SEIPS) model examines problems through the lens of interactions between people and systems. It is a natural fit for investigating the behavioral and systematic components of infection control practices. Methods We conducted a qualitative study to assess the facilitators and barriers to infection control practices at a 1250 bed tertiary care hospital in Haryana, northern India. Twenty semi-structured interviews of nurses and physicians, selected by convenience sampling, were conducted in English using an interview guide based on the SEIPS model. All interview data was subsequently transcribed and coded for themes. Results Person, task, and organizational level factors were the primary barriers and facilitators to infection control at this hospital. Major barriers included a high rate of nursing staff turnover, time spent training new staff, limitations in language competency, and heavy clinical workloads. A well developed infection control team and an institutional climate that prioritizes infection control were major facilitators. Conclusions Institutional support is critical to the effective implementation of infection control practices. Prioritizing resources to recruit and retain trained, experienced nursing staff is also essential. Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13756-017-0189-9) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
