Title: Surface functionalized silver-doped ZnO nanocatalyst: a sustainable cooperative catalytic, photocatalytic and antibacterial platform for waste treatment
Authors: Sagar Vikal, Yogendra K. Gautam, Swati Meena, Vijay Parewa, Ashwani Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Sushila Meena, Sanjay Kumar, Beer Pal Singh
Year: 2023
Venue: Nanoscale Advances
DOI: 10.1039/d2na00864e
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890675

Abstract:
The different dyes used and discharged in industrial settings and microbial pathogenic issues have raised serious concerns about the content of bodies of water and the impact that dyes and microbes have on the environment and human health. Efficient treatment of contaminated water is thus a major challenge that is of great interest to researchers around the world. In the present work, we have fabricated functionalized silver-doped ZnO nanoparticles (Ag-doped ZnO NPs) via a hydrothermal method for wastewater treatment. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis confirmed the doping of Ag with ZnO NPs, and X-ray diffractometry analysis showed a decreasing trend in the crystallite size of the synthesized ZnO NPs with increased Ag concentration. Field emission scanning electron microscopy study of pure ZnO NPs and Ag-doped ZnO NPs revealed nanocrystal aggregates with mixed morphologies, such as hexagonal and rod-shaped structures. Distribution of Ag on the ZnO lattice is confirmed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy analysis. ZnO NPs with 4 wt% Ag doping showed a maximum degradation of ∼95% in 1.5 h of malachite green dye (80 mg L −1 ) under visible light and ∼85% in 4 h under dark conditions. Up to five successive treatment cycles using the 4 wt% Ag-doped ZnO NP nanocatalyst confirmed its reusability, as it was still capable of degrading ∼86% and 82% of the dye under visible light and dark conditions, respectively. This limits the risk of nanotoxicity and aids the cost-effectiveness of the overall treatment process. The synthesized NPs showed antibacterial activity in a dose-dependent manner. The zone of inhibition of the Ag-doped ZnO NPs was higher than that of the pure ZnO NPs for all doping content. The studied Ag-doped ZnO NPs thus offer a significant eco-friendly route for the effective treatment of water contaminated with synthetic dyes and fecal bacterial load. The different dyes used and discharged in industrial settings and microbial pathogenic issues have raised serious concerns about the content of bodies of water and the impact that dyes and microbes have on the environment and human health.
