Title: PSMD2 contributes to the progression of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma by repressing autophagy
Authors: Yachen Liu, Meng Wu, Shuxiang Xu, Xiangjie Niu, Weiling Liu, Chuanwang Miao, Ai Lin, Yang Xu, Lili Yu
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell & Bioscience
DOI: 10.1186/s13578-023-01016-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061715

Abstract:
Background The ubiquitin–proteasome and autophagy-lysosomal systems collaborate in regulating the levels of intracellular proteins. Dysregulation of protein homeostasis is a central feature of malignancy. The gene encoding 26S proteasome non-ATPase regulatory subunit 2 ( PSMD2 ) of the ubiquitin–proteasome system is an oncogene in various types of cancer. However, the detailed role of PSMD2 in autophagy and its relationship to tumorigenesis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remain unknown. In the present study, we have investigated the tumor-promoting roles of PSMD2 in the context of autophagy in ESCC. Methods Molecular approaches including DAPgreen staining, 5-Ethynyl-2ʹ-deoxyuridine (EdU), cell counting kit 8 (CCK8), colony formation, transwell assays, and cell transfection, xenograft model, immunoblotting and Immunohistochemical analysis were used to investigate the roles of PSMD2 in ESCC cells. Data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantification proteomics analysis and rescue experiments were used to study the roles of PSMD2 in ESCC cells. Results We demonstrate that the overexpression of PSMD2 promotes ESCC cell growth by inhibiting autophagy and is correlated with tumor progression and poor prognosis of ESCC patients. DIA quantification proteomics analysis shows a significant positive correlation between argininosuccinate synthase 1 (ASS1) and PSMD2 levels in ESCC tumors. Further studies indicate that PSMD2 activates the mTOR pathway by upregulating ASS1 to inhibit autophagy. Conclusions PSMD2 plays an important role in repressing autophagy in ESCC, and represents a promising biomarker to predict prognosis and a therapeutic target of ESCC patients. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13578-023-01016-4.
