Title: Purification of Tropomyosin, Paramyosin, Actin, Tubulin, Troponin and Kinases for Chemiproteomics and Its Application to Different Scientific Fields
Authors: Tomas Erban
Year: 2011
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022860
Paper ID: pmc_PMC3158061

Abstract:
Background p-aminobenzamidine (p-ABA) is used as a ligand in the purification of many serine proteases and in their removal from heterogeneous samples. Moreover, p-ABA has a potent ability to bind Ca 2+ -binding proteins. The binding ability and use of p-ABA in purification processes is still not fully understood. Methodology/Principal Findings A p-Aminobenzamidine (p-ABA) ligand enabled the purification of the panallergenic proteins tropomyosin and paramyosin, as well as actin, tubulin, troponin and several kinases and annexins, with variable specificity depending on the tissue source and slight modifications to the purification process. The high affinity of p-ABA to tropomyosin, paramyosin, actin, troponin and myosin is calcium-dependent, since calcium regulates the function of these proteins. In addition, p-ABA probably simulates phosphorylated serine and therefore purified appropriate kinases. Because p-ABA binds to calcium-dependent proteins, and probably those with binding sites containing serine, it is not a suitable inhibitor of proteolysis during the purification of such proteins. p-ABA is widely used to inhibit proteases during protein purification processes, but it is used in columns here to purify non-protease proteins. Two strategies were applied; the first was the inactivation of proteases that were not of interest using protease inhibitors. The second strategy employed was the use of a Ca 2+ wash solution to remove calcium-dependent proteins. The removal of calcium-dependent proteins from rabbit hind muscle pointed out even more selective purification. It is possible to obtain two purified samples: a) calcium dependent proteins and b) calcium independent proteins. Moreover, p-ABA may be useful as a model to study processes involving the phosphorylation of serine. Conclusion A p-Aminobenzamidine (p-ABA) ligand enabled the purification of non-protease proteins, with variable specificity depending on the tissue source and slight modifications to the purification process. The method is applicable to various scientific branches, but is especially practical for medicinal applications.
