Title: Increased Expression of IL-37 in Patients with Graves' Disease and Its Contribution to Suppression of Proinflammatory Cytokines Production in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells
Authors: Yanqun Li, Zi Wang, Ting Yu, Bingni Chen, Jinshun Zhang, Kunzhao Huang, Zhong Huang
Year: 2014
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107183
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4165889

Abstract:
Background Intreleukin-37 (IL-37), a member of IL-1 family, is primarily an anti-inflammatory cytokine, which reduces systemic and local inflammation. However, the expression and role of IL-37 in Graves' disease (GD) remains unknown. This study aims to measure the levels of serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) IL-37 in patients with Graves' disease and to examine its association with disease activity. Furthermore, we investigate the effect of IL-37 on proinflammatory cytokines involved in the pathogenesis of GD. Methods The expressions of IL-37, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-17 mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 40 patients with Graves' disease were determined by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and the levels of IL-37, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-17 in serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). The correlation of serum IL-37 levels with cytokines and disease activity in Graves' disease patients were investigated. The expressions of cytokines TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-17 in PBMCs under recombinant IL-37 stimulation were determined by RT-PCR and ELISA respectively. Results The levels of IL-37, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-17 in PBMCs and serum were significantly increased in patients with GD compared with healthy controls (HC). Serum IL-37 were closely correlated with TNF-α, IL-6, IL-17, thyrotropin (TSH), free thyroxine (FT4),free triiodothyronine (FT3) and thyrotropin receptor antibody (TRAB). GD patients with active disease showed higher IL-37 mRNA and serum protein levels compared with those with inactive disease as well as HC. Moreover, IL-37 suppressed the production of IL-6, IL-17 and TNF-α in PBMCs of patients with GD. Conclusions Increased level of IL-37 in patients with GD are associated with TNF-α, IL-6, IL-17 and disease activity, and it plays a protective role against inflammatory effect in GD by inhibiting the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Thus, IL-37 may provide a novel research target for the pathogenesis and therapy of GD.
