Title: Medial patellofemoral ligament reconstruction and tibial tuberosity transfer can be used to successfully manage patellofemoral instability in the setting of trochlea dysplasia
Authors: Varun Dewan, Suribabu Gudipati, Joanna Rooney, Adam Lloyd, Sanjiv Chugh, Ejaz Mughal
Year: 2023
Venue: Knee Surgery & Related Research
DOI: 10.1186/s43019-023-00181-7
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141911

Abstract:
Background Management of patella instability remains a challenge particularly in the presence of trochlea dysplasia. The aim of this study is to assess the recurrence rates of those with patellar instability who have undergone a combined tibial tuberosity transfer (TTT) and medial patellofemoral ligament reconstruction (MPFLR) in the setting of trochlea dysplasia. Methods All skeletally mature patients who underwent combined TTT and MPFLR for recurrent patella instability were identified between January 2009 and December 2019. A retrospective review was conducted, with information regarding re-dislocation/subluxation and complications collected. Results Seventy patients with a mean age 25.3 years were identified and evaluated. Thirteen patients were found to have low-grade dysplasia (Dejour A), with 57 patients having high-grade dysplasia (Dejour B/C/D). No patients in the low,grade dysplasia group suffered a recurrence of their symptoms, with four in the high-grade group suffering episodes of re-dislocation/subluxation. Three patients subsequently underwent a trochleoplasty, with the other patient managed successfully non-operatively. There were a total of 13 complications in 11 patients. Conclusions A combined procedure of MPFLR and TTT can be used to manage patellofemoral instability even in the setting of trochlea dysplasia with a low rate of recurrence. Trochlea dysplasia, however, remains an anatomical risk factor for recurrence and patients should be counselled accordingly. The anatomical risk factors should be assessed in all patients to allow for the development of the most appropriate management plan, of which this combined procedure represents a potentially successful option. Level of Evidence IV (Case Series).
