Title: The positive impact of introducing modified directed self-learning using pre–small group discussion worksheets as an active learning strategy in undergraduate medical education
Authors: Ammara Yousaf, Hira Moin, Sadaf Majeed, Riffat Shafi, Sumreena Mansoor
Year: 2023
Venue: Medical Education Online
DOI: 10.1080/10872981.2023.2204547
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142312

Abstract:
ABSTRACT Background Directed self-learning (DSL) is an active learning approach where the learners are provided with predefined learning objectives and some facilitation through the learning process in the form of guidance and supervision. It can help establish a strong foundation for autonomous and deep learning. Objective The aim of this study was to introduce a modified form of DSL to second-year undergraduate medical students using pre–small group discussion (pre-SGD) worksheets. The authors intended to evaluate its effectiveness through theme assessment and investigate students’ perceptions using a feedback questionnaire. Methods This was an analytical cross-sectional study. Modified DSL (MDSL) was introduced to 96 second-year undergraduate medical students in two themes. Students were divided randomly into two groups. One group was exposed to traditional DSL (TDSL), and the other was introduced to MDSL using pre-SGD worksheets for the first theme. Groups were reversed for the second theme. The activity was followed by a theme assessment, which was scored for research purpose only. The scores of this assessment were compared, and perceptions of the students were gathered using a validated questionnaire. Data were analyzed using IBM’s statistical package of social sciences (SPSS) version 22. Results The comparison of theme assessment scores revealed statistically significant difference (P = 0.002) in median scores between control TDSL and experimental MDSL groups. The percentage of students scoring ≥80% in theme assessment was significantly higher in the experimental group compared to the control group (P = 0.029). This strategy was well perceived by the students in terms of acceptability and effectiveness as depicted by a high degree of agreement on the Likert-scale. Conclusion Modified DSL resulted in significant improvement in academic performance of undergraduate medical students. MDSL was also well perceived as an active learning strategy in terms of acceptability, effectiveness, and comparison with TDSL.
