Title: lncRNA BREA2 promotes metastasis by disrupting the WWP2-mediated ubiquitination of Notch1
Authors: Zhen Zhang, Yun-xin Lu, Fangzhou Liu, Lingjie Sang, Chengyu Shi, Shaofang Xie, Weixiang Bian, Jie-cheng Yang, Zuozhen Yang, Lei Qu, Shi-yi Chen, Jun Li, Lu Yang, Qingfeng Yan, Wenqi Wang, Peifen Fu, Jianzhong Shao, Xu Li, Aifu Lin
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206694120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974429

Abstract:
Significance The nuclear NICD1-specific regulatory mechanism governing Notch activation remains to be clarified, and the lack of this basic understanding hampers efforts to develop strategies to treat Notch-dependent cancer. Here, we report that the long noncoding RNA BREA2 sustains lung metastasis by promoting Notch transcriptional activity. BREA2 stabilizes Notch1 in the nucleus by attenuating ubiquitination mediated by an E3 ligase, WWP2, leading to Notch activation and lung metastasis. Targeting BREA2 sensitizes breast cancer to Notch inhibitors. Moreover, the results reveal that WWP2 is a potential breast cancer suppressor. These findings provide evidence of the molecular mechanisms mediated by Notch signaling activation via the lung metastasis-associated lncRNA BREA2 and open the door for the development of therapeutic approaches based on lncRNA targeting. Notch has been implicated in human cancers and is a putative therapeutic target. However, the regulation of Notch activation in the nucleus remains largely uncharacterized. Therefore, characterizing the detailed mechanisms governing Notch degradation will identify attractive strategies for treating Notch-activated cancers. Here, we report that the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) BREA2 drives breast cancer metastasis by stabilizing the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD1). Moreover, we reveal WW domain containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2 (WWP2) as an E3 ligase for NICD1 at K1821 and a suppressor of breast cancer metastasis. Mechanistically, BREA2 impairs WWP2–NICD1 complex formation and in turn stabilizes NICD1, leading to Notch signaling activation and lung metastasis. BREA2 loss sensitizes breast cancer cells to inhibition of Notch signaling and suppresses the growth of breast cancer patient-derived xenograft tumors, highlighting its therapeutic potential in breast cancer. Taken together, these results reveal the lncRNA BREA2 as a putative regulator of Notch signaling and an oncogenic player driving breast cancer metastasis.
