Title: Impact of covid-19 pandemic on quality of life and psychosocial difficulties among liver transplant recipients
Authors: Ashok Choudhury, Mohit Varshney, Bishnupriya Sahoo, Viniyendra Pamecha, Piyush Sinha, Nilesh Sadashiv Patil, Nihar Mohapatra, Vibhuti Sharma, Raman Kumar
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care
DOI: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_1798_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8963630

Abstract:
Background: The first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic affected health in all domains i.e., physical, mental, and social aspects. Liver transplant (LT) recipients faced a multitude of challenges during the first wave of lockdown. The aim was to identify the psychosocial difficulties and quality of life during the first year of the pandemic. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted on LT recipients with a predefined structured questionnaire that included clinical, COVID-19 anxiety scale, and Post-Transplant Quality of life questionnaire (pLTQ). Results: A total of 109 patients were studied; with a mean age of 50.5 ± 11.1 years, with a median post-transplant follow-up of 52.4 months and a live donor transplant in the majority (79.8%). Almost all (99.1%) could come to the hospital for regular follow-up, prior to the pandemic. But during the first wave only 57% could maintain planned hospital visits and about 88% could not pursue their regular activities, and 39% missed their routine exercise because of imposed restrictions. Similarly, financial implications were responsible for 4% defaulting from treatment; while 7.3% managed by curtailing supportive drugs (on their own) leading to deranged liver tests in 4.6%; requiring immediate attention. The psychosocial difficulties raised the stress of pandemic (median score 18), and impacted quality of life (mean total pLTQ score 4.7 ± 0.9) Conclusions: For LT recipients, the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic affected their physical, mental, financial, and social wellbeing; in addition to the disease itself. Awareness, psychosocial support, and comprehensive care are some unmet needs for this special group; especially when it is expected that subsequent waves may continue to occur.
