Title: Evidence of Accidental Dosing Errors with Immediate-Release Sodium Oxybate: Data from the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System
Authors: Jennifer Gudeman, Danielle Burroughs
Year: 2023
Venue: Drugs - Real World Outcomes
DOI: 10.1007/s40801-023-00351-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232711

Abstract:
Introduction Sodium oxybate has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat narcolepsy for 20 years; however, the only available products have been immediate-release (IR) formulations given twice nightly—once at bedtime and a second dose 2.5–4 h later—creating inherent risks with dosing administration errors. Objectives Evidence and risks associated with accidental ingestion of the second IR oxybate dose < 2.5 h after the first dose were examined. Methods The FDA Adverse Event Reporting System database was searched for “inappropriate schedule of product administration” with IR sodium oxybate or calcium/magnesium/potassium/sodium oxybates; reports classified as serious and with IR oxybate as the suspect product were further analyzed. Results Of 541 reports meeting the search criteria, 178 were classified as serious: accidental early administration of the second dose resulting in adverse events (AEs; n = 41); “near miss” (no harm reported following early dosing; n = 9); intentionally taking second dose early ( n = 25); other inappropriate use (late dosing/not taking daily; n = 102); and one duplicate report. Of the 41 reports of taking the second dose too early resulting in AEs, 22% (9/41) used emergency services and 27% (11/41) resulted in hospitalizations. AEs reported with accidentally taking the second dose too early included CNS depression, bradycardia, respiratory depression, dizziness, seizure, confusion, delirium, difficulty awakening, drowsiness, falls, nausea, vomiting, and enuresis. Conclusions Patients, caregivers, clinicians, and Poison Control Centers should be aware of the risk of accidentally dosing twice-nightly IR oxybates earlier than 2.5 h after the first dose and the subsequent harm that may occur with early dosing. Plain language summary Sodium oxybate and calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium oxybates (both medicines are called “oxybates”) are medicines used to treat narcolepsy. People with narcolepsy need to take these medicines twice every night. They take one dose at bedtime and then wake up 2.5–4 h later to take the second dose. People could make mistakes taking their oxybate medicine because of this schedule. We looked in the US Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s) database called the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System to learn if there were reports of people accidentally taking the second dose of their oxybate medicine earlier than 2.5 h after taking the first dose. People who accidentally took the second dose too early experienced side effects like slowing down of the brain, breathing, and heart; feeling dizzy; having a seizure; being confused; having trouble waking up; being sleepy; falling down; feeling sick to their stomach; throwing up; and wetting the bed. Some people used emergency help and some went to the hospital. We found that harm may occur if people take the second dose of these oxybates too soon after the first dose. These risks were not previously reported. People with narcolepsy, their families, and their doctors need to know about these risks with the oxybates that are taken twice every night.
