Title: Neural correlates of digital measures shown by structural MRI: a post-hoc analysis of a smartphone-based remote assessment feasibility study in multiple sclerosis
Authors: Marco Ganzetti, Jennifer S. Graves, Sven P. Holm, Frank Dondelinger, Luciana Midaglia, Laura Gaetano, Licinio Craveiro, Florian Lipsmeier, Corrado Bernasconi, Xavier Montalban, Stephen L. Hauser, Michael Lindemann
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Neurology
DOI: 10.1007/s00415-022-11494-0
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9970954

Abstract:
Background A study was undertaken to evaluate remote monitoring via smartphone sensor-based tests in people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS). This analysis aimed to explore regional neural correlates of digital measures derived from these tests. Methods In a 24-week, non-randomized, interventional, feasibility study ( NCT02952911 ), sensor-based tests on the Floodlight Proof-of-Concept app were used to assess cognition (smartphone-based electronic Symbol Digit Modalities Test), upper extremity function (Draw a Shape Test, Pinching Test), and gait and balance (Static Balance Test, Two-Minute Walk Test, U-Turn Test). In this post-hoc analysis, digital measures and standard clinical measures (e.g., Nine-Hole Peg Test [9HPT]) were correlated against regional structural magnetic resonance imaging outcomes. Seventy-six PwMS aged 18–55 years with an Expanded Disability Status Scale score of 0.0–5.5 were enrolled from two different sites (USA and Spain). Sixty-two PwMS were included in this analysis. Results Worse performance on digital and clinical measures was associated with smaller regional brain volumes and larger ventricular volumes. Whereas digital and clinical measures had many neural correlates in common (e.g., putamen, globus pallidus, caudate nucleus, lateral occipital cortex), some were observed only for digital measures. For example, Draw a Shape Test and Pinching Test measures, but not 9HPT score, correlated with volume of the hippocampus ( r = 0.37 [drawing accuracy over time on the Draw a Shape Test]/ − 0.45 [touching asynchrony on the Pinching Test]), thalamus ( r = 0.38/ − 0.41), and pons ( r = 0.35/ − 0.35). Conclusions Multiple neural correlates were identified for the digital measures in a cohort of people with early MS. Digital measures showed associations with brain regions that clinical measures were unable to demonstrate, thus providing potential novel information on functional ability compared with standard clinical assessments. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00415-022-11494-0.
