Title: A meta-analysis and a functional study support the influence of mtDNA variant m.16519C on the risk of rapid progression of knee osteoarthritis
Authors: Alejandro Durán-Sotuela, Mercedes Fernandez-Moreno, Victoria Suárez-Ulloa, Jorge Vázquez-García, Sara Relaño, Tamara Hermida-Gómez, Vanesa Balboa-Barreiro, Lucia Lourido-Salas, Valentina Calamia, Patricia Fernandez-Puente, Cristina Ruiz-Romero, Juan Fernández-Tajes, Carlos Vaamonde-García, María C de Andrés, Natividad Oreiro, Francisco J Blanco, Ignacio Rego-Perez
Year: 2023
Venue: Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases
DOI: 10.1136/ard-2022-223570
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313990

Abstract:
Objectives To identify mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genetic variants associated with the risk of rapid progression of knee osteoarthritis (OA) and to characterise their functional significance using a cellular model of transmitochondrial cybrids. Methods Three prospective cohorts contributed participants. The osteoarthritis initiative (OAI) included 1095 subjects, the Cohort Hip and Cohort Knee included 373 and 326 came from the PROspective Cohort of Osteoarthritis from A Coruña. mtDNA variants were screened in an initial subset of 450 subjects from the OAI by in-depth sequencing of mtDNA. A meta-analysis of the three cohorts was performed. A model of cybrids was constructed to study the functional consequences of harbouring the risk mtDNA variant by assessing: mtDNA copy number, mitochondrial biosynthesis, mitochondrial fission and fusion, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), oxidative stress, autophagy and a whole transcriptome analysis by RNA-sequencing. Results mtDNA variant m.16519C is over-represented in rapid progressors (combined OR 1.546; 95% CI 1.163 to 2.054; p=0.0027). Cybrids with this variant show increased mtDNA copy number and decreased mitochondrial biosynthesis; they produce higher amounts of mitochondrial ROS, are less resistant to oxidative stress, show a lower expression of the mitochondrial fission-related gene fission mitochondrial 1 and an impairment of autophagic flux. In addition, its presence modulates the transcriptome of cybrids, especially in terms of inflammation, where interleukin 6 emerges as one of the most differentially expressed genes. Conclusions The presence of the mtDNA variant m.16519C increases the risk of rapid progression of knee OA. Among the most modulated biological processes associated with this variant, inflammation and negative regulation of cellular process stand out. The design of therapies based on the maintenance of mitochondrial function is recommended.
