Title: Can accurate demographic information about people who use prescription medications nonmedically be derived from Twitter?
Authors: Yuan-Chi Yang, Mohammed Ali Al-Garadi, Jennifer S. Love, Hannah L. F. Cooper, Jeanmarie Perrone, Abeed Sarker
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2207391120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974473

Abstract:
Significance Nonmedical substance use surveillance via social media has the potential to provide low-cost and more timely insights than traditional approaches. However, current social media-based approaches lack the capability to provide fine-grained, subpopulation-level statistics. We attempted to fill the gap by developing natural language processing methods to estimate the demographic distribution (gender, age, and race) of a large cohort (N = 288,562) of people who reported nonmedical prescription medication use on Twitter. Automatically derived distributions for opioids, stimulants, and tranquilizers were largely consistent, often with very strong correlations, with statistics reported in traditional sources such as the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. Our work represents an important stride in establishing social media as a complementary resource for substance use surveillance. Traditional substance use (SU) surveillance methods, such as surveys, incur substantial lags. Due to the continuously evolving trends in SU, insights obtained via such methods are often outdated. Social media-based sources have been proposed for obtaining timely insights, but methods leveraging such data cannot typically provide fine-grained statistics about subpopulations, unlike traditional approaches. We address this gap by developing methods for automatically characterizing a large Twitter nonmedical prescription medication use (NPMU) cohort (n = 288,562) in terms of age-group, race, and gender. Our natural language processing and machine learning methods for automated cohort characterization achieved 0.88 precision (95% CI:0.84 to 0.92) for age-group, 0.90 (95% CI: 0.85 to 0.95) for race, and 94% accuracy (95% CI: 92 to 97) for gender, when evaluated against manually annotated gold-standard data. We compared automatically derived statistics for NPMU of tranquilizers, stimulants, and opioids from Twitter with statistics reported in the National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) and the National Emergency Department Sample (NEDS). Distributions automatically estimated from Twitter were mostly consistent with the NSDUH [Spearman r : race: 0.98 ( P < 0.005); age-group: 0.67 ( P < 0.005); gender: 0.66 ( P = 0.27)] and NEDS, with 34/65 (52.3%) of the Twitter-based estimates lying within 95% CIs of estimates from the traditional sources. Explainable differences (e.g., overrepresentation of younger people) were found for age-group-related statistics. Our study demonstrates that accurate subpopulation-specific estimates about SU, particularly NPMU, may be automatically derived from Twitter to obtain earlier insights about targeted subpopulations compared to traditional surveillance approaches.
