Title: Antifibrinolytics use during surgery for oncological spine diseases: A systematic review
Authors: Mauricio J. Avila, José Manuel Orenday-Barraza, María José Cavagnaro, Isabel M. Strouse, Dara S. Farhadi, Naushaba Khan, Amna Hussein, Ali A. Baaj
Year: 2022
Venue: Surgical Neurology International
DOI: 10.25259/SNI_837_2022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805626

Abstract:
Background: Data exist of the benefits of antifibrinolytics such as tranexamic acid (TXA) in general spine surgery. However, there are limited data of its use in oncological spine patients. Methods: A systematic review was conducted using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. PubMed, Cochrane, OVID, and Embase databases were searched. Search terms: “ tranexamic acid” , “ aprotinin ,” “ aminocaproic acid ,” “ spine surgery ,” “ spine tumors ,” and “ spine oncology .” Included studies were full text publications written in English with patients treated with either agent or who had surgery for oncological spine disease (OSD). Results: Seven hundred results were reviewed form the different databases, seven were selected. A total of 408 patients underwent spine surgery for OSD and received antifibrinolytics. There was a male predominance (55.2%) and mean age ranged from 43 to 62 years. The most common tumor operated was metastatic renal cancer, followed by breast and lung. Most studies administered TXA as a bolus followed by an infusion during surgery. Median blood loss was of 667 mL (253.3–1480 mL). Patients with TXA required 1–2 units less of transfusion and had 56–63 mL less of postoperative drainage versus no TXA. The median incidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was 2.95% (0–7.9%) and for pulmonary embolism (PE) was 4.25% (0–14.3%). The use of TXA reduced intraoperative blood loss, transfusions and reduced postoperative surgical drainage output compared to no TXA use in patients with OSD. Conclusion: In this review, we found that TXA may diminish intraoperative blood loss, the need for transfusion and postoperative drainage from surgical drains when used in OSD without major increase in rates of DVT or PE.
