Title: Controlling the shape and topology of two-component colloidal membranes
Authors: Ayantika Khanra, Leroy L. Jia, Noah P. Mitchell, Andrew Balchunas, Robert A. Pelcovits, Thomas R. Powers, Zvonimir Dogic, Prerna Sharma
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2204453119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371715

Abstract:
Significance Three-dimensional shaping of thin sheets and membranes is a ubiquitous feature of materials science and underlies diverse biological processes, ranging from large-scale morphogenesis to molecular drug delivery. It is also a familiar everyday phenomenon, as illustrated by the formation of soap bubbles. We demonstrate how flat disk–shaped colloidal membranes transform into saddle-like surfaces. As membranes coalesce, the saddle-shaped surfaces form catenoid-like structures and other architectures of increasing complexity and topological genus. The unique features of our experiments reveal the three-dimensional details of the pathway by which membranes undergo topological shape changes in real time. Our results demonstrate the topological shaping of membrane-like materials through control of their elasticity and Gaussian curvature modulus. Changes in the geometry and topology of self-assembled membranes underlie diverse processes across cellular biology and engineering. Similar to lipid bilayers, monolayer colloidal membranes have in-plane fluid-like dynamics and out-of-plane bending elasticity. Their open edges and micrometer-length scale provide a tractable system to study the equilibrium energetics and dynamic pathways of membrane assembly and reconfiguration. Here, we find that doping colloidal membranes with short miscible rods transforms disk-shaped membranes into saddle-shaped surfaces with complex edge structures. The saddle-shaped membranes are well approximated by Enneper’s minimal surfaces. Theoretical modeling demonstrates that their formation is driven by increasing the positive Gaussian modulus, which in turn, is controlled by the fraction of short rods. Further coalescence of saddle-shaped surfaces leads to diverse topologically distinct structures, including shapes similar to catenoids, trinoids, four-noids, and higher-order structures. At long timescales, we observe the formation of a system-spanning, sponge-like phase. The unique features of colloidal membranes reveal the topological transformations that accompany coalescence pathways in real time. We enhance the functionality of these membranes by making their shape responsive to external stimuli. Our results demonstrate a pathway toward control of thin elastic sheets’ shape and topology—a pathway driven by the emergent elasticity induced by compositional heterogeneity.
