Title: Oxaliplatin-Based Adjuvant Chemotherapy without Radiotherapy Can Improve the Survival of Locally-Advanced Rectal Cancer
Authors: Jun Li, Yue Liu, Jian-Wei Wang, Yang Gao, Ye-Ting Hu, Jin-Jie He, Xiu-Yan Yu, Han-Guang Hu, Ying Yuan, Su-Zhan Zhang, Ke-Feng Ding
Year: 2014
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107872
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4171483

Abstract:
Objective To assess the impact of oxaliplatin-containing adjuvant chemotherapy on the survival of patients with locally-advanced rectal cancer. Methods Data on patients with pathologically-confirmed T3/4 or N1/2 rectal cancer who accepted radical surgery at our center from January 2002 to June 2009 were reviewed retrospectively. The patients' 5-year overall survival (OS), disease-specific survival (DSS), and recurrence-free survival (RFS) were analyzed by comparing those who accepted radical surgery only (Group S) with those who accepted radical surgery and oxaliplatin-containing adjuvant chemotherapy (Group SO). Results A total of 236 patients were analyzed (Group S 135; Group SO 101). Group S patients were older and had a higher proportion with stage II disease and more perioperative complications than those in Group SO ( P <0.05). The OS and DSS of patients with stage III disease under 50 years of age or with mucinous adenocarcinoma were higher in Group SO than Group S ( P <0.05). In addition, the OS of patients with stage N2b disease was higher in Group SO than Group S ( P = 0.016), and the OS of patients with stage N1a or N2b disease who received more than 8 weeks of oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy was also higher in Group SO than Group S ( P <0.05). Although the OS and DSS of patients with stage II disease in Group SO showed a tendency towards improvement, the differences between the groups were not statistically significant. Conclusion Adjuvant oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy can improve the survival of patients with locally-advanced low and middle rectal cancers in comparison with observation. Randomized, prospective trials are warranted to confirm this benefit of oxaliplatin for rectal cancer.
