Title: Cost-effectiveness of atrial fibrillation screening in Canadian community practice
Authors: Jason G. Andrade, Anshul Shah, Richard Godin, Tereza Lanitis, Thitima Kongnakorn, Lauren Brown, Devender Dhanda, Amol Dhamane, Isabelle Nault
Year: 2023
Venue: Heart Rhythm O2
DOI: 10.1016/j.hroo.2022.11.003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975014

Abstract:
Background Contemporary guidelines recommend opportunistic screening for atrial fibrillation (AF). Objective The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of single time point opportunistic AF screening for patients 65 years and older by using the single-lead electrocardiogram. Methods An established Markov cohort model was adapted by updating the background mortality estimates, epidemiology, screening efficacy, treatment patterns, resource use, and cost inputs to reflect a Canadian health care setting. Inputs were derived from a contemporary prospective screening study performed in Canadian primary care settings (screening efficacy and epidemiology) and the published literature (unit costs, epidemiology, mortality, utility, and treatment efficacy). The impact of screening and oral anticoagulant treatment on the cost and clinical outcomes was analyzed. A Canadian payer perspective over lifetime was used for analysis, with costs expressed in 2019 Canadian dollars. Results Among the estimated screening-eligible population of 2,929,301 patients, the screening cohort identified an additional 127,670 AF cases compared with the usual care cohort. The model estimated avoidance of 12,236 strokes and incremental quality-adjusted life-years of 59,577 (0.02 per patient) over lifetime in the screening cohort. Cost savings were substantial because of improved health outcomes, reflecting screening being the dominant strategy (affordable and effective). Model results were robust across sensitivity and scenario analyses. Conclusion Single time point opportunistic screening of AF using a single-lead electrocardiogram device in Canadian patients 65 years and older without known AF may provide improved health outcomes with cost savings from the perspective of a single payer health care environment.
