Title: Chemical inhibition of the auxin inactivation pathway uncovers the roles of metabolic turnover in auxin homeostasis
Authors: Kosuke Fukui, Kazushi Arai, Yuka Tanaka, Yuki Aoi, Vandna Kukshal, Joseph M. Jez, Martin F. Kubes, Richard Napier, Yunde Zhao, Hiroyuki Kasahara, Ken-ichiro Hayashi
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206869119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371723

Abstract:
Significance The phytohormone auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), is a key regulator in plant growth. The intracellular auxin level is precisely regulated in response to developmental and environmental cues. Auxin inactivation plays an important role in auxin homeostasis. Auxin is predominantly inactivated by conjugating it to amino acids—reactions catalyzed by the GH3 enzymes. Auxin rapidly induces the expression of auxin-inactivating GH3 family genes, thus forming a negative feedback loop for maintaining IAA levels. Using kakeimide, a selective inhibitor for auxin-inactivating GH3 enzymes, we demonstrate that auxin homeostasis is dynamically maintained by the rapid turnover of IAA (about 10 min) and that the GH3 pathway plays a central role in auxin inactivation in various plant species. The phytohormone auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), plays a prominent role in plant development. Auxin homeostasis is coordinately regulated by auxin synthesis, transport, and inactivation; however, the physiological contribution of auxin inactivation to auxin homeostasis has not been determined. The GH3 IAA–amino acid conjugating enzymes play a central role in auxin inactivation. Chemical inhibition of GH3 proteins in planta is challenging because the inhibition of these enzymes leads to IAA overaccumulation that rapidly induces GH3 expression. Here, we report the characterization of a potent GH3 inhibitor, kakeimide, that selectively targets IAA-conjugating GH3 proteins. Chemical knockdown of the auxin inactivation pathway demonstrates that auxin turnover is very rapid (about 10 min) and indicates that both auxin biosynthesis and inactivation dynamically regulate auxin homeostasis.
