Title: Whole Genome Sequencing of Single-Circulating Tumor Cell Ameliorates Unraveling Breast Cancer Heterogeneity
Authors: Yongping Li, Xiaofei Jiang, Ming Zhong, Bo Yu, Hao Yuan
Year: 2022
Venue: Breast Cancer : Targets and Therapy
DOI: 10.2147/BCTT.S388653
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805725

Abstract:
Objective Because tumor tissues are most frequently heterogeneous and hard to characterize, the resulting therapeutic strategy could be misled. The most active and invasive tumor cells are circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In this study, we investigated the feasibility of individualized treatment of breast cancer patients based on whole genome sequencing (WGS) of single cell CTC. Methods Twenty-four CTCs were identified in three breast cancer patients. For each patient, one polyploid CTC was captured, and on which the WGS was performed. WGS was considered due to its sequencing robustness compared to conventional sequencing approaches. Based on the histopathological Her-2 status in tumor tissue and the HER2 gene status in WGS results of CTC, we adjusted treatment strategies and monitored disease progression. Results Patients ID1 and ID2 are found to be Her-2 positive in primary tumors and HER2 gene amplification in the DNA of CTCs. In-patient ID3, histopathological examination of the primary tumor and liver metastases revealed Her-2 negative, but the WGS analysis of CTC showed HER2 gene amplification. After adjusting treatment by adding Her-2 inhibitors according to the results of CTC sequencing, liver metastases and pleural effusion were significantly reduced two months later, CTC number and ctDNA burden were decreased, and 18-months progression-free survival (PFS) was recorded. In addition, some potential therapeutic targets and mutations in drug-resistant genes were detected. Conclusion The results of CTC sequencing effectively guided the treatment of a patient with HER2 gene amplification in CTC but with Her-2 negative on tumor tissue. Therefore, CTC sequencing could help resolve the heterogeneity of tumors and provide precision medicine for patients.
