Title: Cytotoxicity of four Aframomum species ( A. arundinaceum, A. alboviolaceum, A. kayserianum and A. polyanthum ) towards multi-factorial drug resistant cancer cell lines
Authors: Victor Kuete, Patrick Y Ango, Samuel O Yeboah, Armelle T Mbaveng, Renameditswe Mapitse, Gilbert DWF Kapche, Bonaventure T Ngadjui, Thomas Efferth
Year: 2014
Venue: BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine
DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-14-340
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4177760

Abstract:
Background The search for natural products as potential cytotoxic agents has yielded promising candidates. However multidrug resistance (MDR) is still a major hurdle for patients receiving chemotherapy. In the present study, we evaluated the cytotoxicity of the methanol extracts of four dietary Aframomum plant species ( A. arundinaceum, A. alboviolaceum, A. kayserianum and A. polyanthum ) against nine sensitive and MDR cancer cell lines. We have also identified the bioactive constituents of A. arundinaceum . Methods The cytotoxicity of the methanol extracts of the above plants was determined using a resazurin reduction assay. Chromatographic techniques were used to isolate the constituents of A. arundinaceum. Results A preliminary experiment on leukemia CCRF-CEM cells at 40 μg/mL showed that the extracts from A. kayserianum and A. alboviolaceum as well as the isolated compounds namely compounds aframodial ( 1 ), 8(17),12-labdadien-15,16-dial ( 2 ), galanolactone ( 3 ), 1- p -menthene-3,6-diol ( 6 ) and 1,4-dimethoxybenzene ( 7 ) were less active, inducing more than 50% growth of this cell line contrary to A. polyanthum and A. arundinaceum extracts, galanals A ( 4 ) and B ( 5 ), naringenin ( 8 ) and kaempferol-3,7,4’-trimethylether ( 9 ). The IC 50 values below or around 30 μg/mL were recorded with A. arundinaceum extract against eight of the nine tested cancer cell lines. This extract as well as compound 8 displayed IC 50 values below 40 μg/mL towards the nine tested cancer cell lines whilst A. polyanthum extract, compounds 4, 5 and 9 showed selective activities. Collateral sensitivity (hypersensitivity) was observed with A. arundinaceum extract towards leukemia CEM/ADR5000 cells and glioblastoma U87MG. ΔEGFR compared to their respective sensitive counterparts CEM/CEM and U87MG. Conclusion The results of this study provide evidence of the cytotoxicity selected Aframomum species as well as a baseline information for the potential use of Aframomum arundinaceum in the fight against drug sensitive and otherwise drug-resistant cancers.
