Title: Keratocytes migrate against flow with a roly-poly-like mechanism
Authors: Valentine Seveau de Noray, Fabio Manca, Inès Mainil, Alexandre Remson, Martine Biarnes-Pelicot, Sylvain Gabriele, Marie-Pierre Valignat, Olivier Theodoly
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2210379119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889884

Abstract:
Significance Cell guidance phenotypes play essential functions in life processes, and their mechanisms generally rely on sophisticated biosignaling pathways, like in chemotaxis. In contrast, we reveal here a mechanotaxis phenotype of fish keratocytes orienting with or against the direction of flow that relies on a purely mechanical bias. The torque exerted by flow on the asymmetric shape of keratocytes takes opposite orientations depending on keratocyte shapes, and a simple mechanics model fully predicts the orientation of individual cells. This original passive mechanism implies a potential absence of alternative biosignaling mechanism and of physiological function. This elegant reductionist approach to a complex biological phenomenon also exemplifies how morphological diversity can lead to categorically distinct behaviors. While cell migration can be directed by various mechanical cues such as force, deformation, stiffness, or flow, the associated mechanisms and functions may remain elusive. Single cell migration against flow, repeatedly reported with leukocytes, is arguably considered as active and mediated by integrin mechanotransduction, or passive and determined by a mechanical bias. Here, we reveal a phenotype of flow mechanotaxis with fish epithelial keratocytes that orient upstream or downstream at shear stresses around tens of dyn cm −2 . We show that each cell has an intrinsic orientation that results from the mechanical interaction of flow with its morphology. The bulbous trailing edge of a keratocyte generates a hydrodynamical torque under flow that stabilizes an upstream orientation, just as the heavy lower edge of a roly-poly toy generates a gravitational torque that stabilizes an upright position. In turn, the wide and flat leading edge of keratocytes destabilizes upstream orientation, allowing the existence of two distinct phenotypes. To formalize these observations, we propose a simple mechanical model that considers keratocyte morphology as a hemisphere preceded by a wide thin sheet. Our findings show that this model can recapitulate the phase diagram of single cell orientation under flow without adjustable parameters. From a larger perspective, this passive mechanism of keratocytes flow mechanotaxis implies a potential absence of physiological function and evolution-driven process.
