Title: Informed self-assessment during the transition to medical school: a longitudinal narrative study
Authors: Jenny McDonald, Samantha Ryan, Sylvia Heeneman, Wendy Hu
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-065203
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806099

Abstract:
Objectives To explore how medical students’ narratives of informed self-assessment (ISA) change during their first 18 months of study. Design This longitudinal study used student narratives drawn from qualitative interviews and written reflections during the transition to medical school, to examine changes in ISA. Our analysis was informed by Situated Cognition Theory which recognises the impact and interplay of personal and environmental factors in cognition. Setting To study medicine, first year students need to adapt their self-regulated learning in the context of a new peer group, study demands and educational culture. During this adaptation, students need to seek and interpret available cues to inform their self-assessment. Participants Longitudinal data were collected at five time points over 18 months from a diverse sample of seven first year medical students in an undergraduate medical programme, including 13.5 hours of interviews and 12 written reflections. Results Before and after starting medical school, the participants’ self-assessments were informed by environmental influences (exam results and comparison with peers), and personal influences (fear of failure and anxiety about not belonging). Early uncertainty meant self-assessments were overestimated and underestimated. By the end of first year, an enhanced sense of belonging coincided with less fear of failure, less emphasis on exam performance and reduced competition with peers. Self-assessments became increasingly informed by evidence of clinical skills and knowledge gained related to future professional competence. Conclusion Influences on medical students’ ISAs change during the transition to studying medicine. A greater sense of belonging, and evidence of progress towards clinical competence became more important to self-assessment than comparison with peers and exam performance. Our findings reinforce the importance of formative assessments, opportunities to study and socialise with peers and early clinical experiences during first year. These experiences enhance ISA skills during the transition to medical school.
