Title: Three-dimensional simulation of aesthetic outcome from breast-conserving surgery compared with viewing photographs or standard care: randomized clinical trial
Authors: A R Godden, A Micha, L M Wolf, C Pitches, P A Barry, A A Khan, K D C Krupa, A M Kirby, J E Rusby
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab217
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364871

Abstract:
Abstract Introduction Over half of women with surgically managed breast cancer in the UK undergo breast-conserving treatment (BCT). While photographs are shown prior to reconstructive surgery or complex oncoplastic procedures, standard practice prior to breast conservation is to simply describe the likely aesthetic changes. Patients have expressed the desire for more personalized information about likely appearance after surgery. The hypothesis was that viewing a three-dimensional (3D) simulation improves patients’ confidence in knowing their likely aesthetic outcome after surgery. Methods A randomized, controlled trial of 117 women planning unilateral BCT was undertaken. The randomization was three-way: standard of care (verbal description alone, control group), viewing two-dimensional (2D) photographs, or viewing a 3D simulation before surgery. The primary endpoint was the comparison between groups’ median answer on a visual analogue scale (VAS) for the question administered before surgery: ‘How confident are you that you know how your breasts are likely to look after treatment?’ Results The median VAS in the control group was 5.2 (i.q.r. 2.6–7.8); 8.0 (i.q.r. 5.7–8.7) for 2D photography, and 8.9 (i.q.r. 8.2–9.5) for 3D simulation. There was a significant difference between groups ( P < 0.010) with post-hoc pairwise comparisons demonstrating a statistically significant difference between 3D simulation and both standard care and viewing 2D photographs ( P < 0.010 and P = 0.012, respectively). Conclusion This RCT has demonstrated that women who viewed an individualized 3D simulation of likely aesthetic outcome for BCT were more confident going into surgery than those who received standard care or who were shown 2D photographs of other women. The impact on longer-term satisfaction with outcome remains to be determined. Registration number: NCT03250260 ( http://www.clinicaltrials.gov ). Aesthetic outcome following breast cancer surgery has well described influence on long-term quality of life. The authors have developed a three-dimensional simulation to model aesthetic outcome following breast - conserving treatment and tested it against the current standard of care (verbal description of likely aesthetic outcome) and the viewing of two-dimensional photographs of other women, in a randomized controlled trial. Simulation provided an efficient way to share information in the preoperative setting and demonstrated superior results with regard to preparing women for their aesthetic outcome compared with current methods.
