Title: Selective engram coreactivation in idling brain inspires implicit learning
Authors: Mohamed H. Aly, Kareem Abdou, Reiko Okubo-Suzuki, Masanori Nomoto, Kaoru Inokuchi
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2201578119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371673

Abstract:
Significance A flexible interaction among memories is hypothesized to inform perception through extracting commonalities between the various life experiences and forming connections beyond those directly learned. It often occurs spontaneously after—rather than during—learning; we therefore studied the role of offline brain machinery, that is, during postlearning awake and sleep states, in generating these delayed associations. We found that this offline learning occurs through the coreactivation of cortical representations of an existing memory with that of a subtly related recent one as it gets consolidated during sleep. On the other hand, an early online association occurs when memories share obvious commonalities. Finally, disrupting these delayed offline cortical coreactivations, although not affecting individual memories, interfered with extracting their implicit relationship. Passive priming of prior knowledge to assimilate ongoing experiences underlies advanced cognitive processing. However, the necessary neural dynamics of memory assimilation remains elusive. Uninstructed brain could also show boosted creativity, particularly after idling states, yet it remains unclear whether the idling brain can spontaneously spark relevant knowledge assimilations. We established a paradigm that links/separates context-dependent memories according to geometrical similarities. Mice exploring one of four contexts 1 d before undergoing contextual fear conditioning in a square context showed a gradual fear transfer to preexposed geometrically relevant contexts the next day, but not after 15 min. Anterior cingulate cortex neurons representing relevant, rather than distinct, memories were significantly coreactivated during postconditioning sleep only, before their selective integration the next day during testing. Disrupting sleep coreactivations prevented assimilation while preserving recent memory consolidation. Thus, assimilating pertinent memories during sleep through coreactivation of their respective engrams represents the neural underpinnings of sleep-triggered implicit cortical learning.
