Title: Tumor biology and immune infiltration define primary liver cancer subsets linked to overall survival after immunotherapy
Authors: Anuradha Budhu, Erica C. Pehrsson, Aiwu He, Lipika Goyal, Robin Kate Kelley, Hien Dang, Changqing Xie, Cecilia Monge, Mayank Tandon, Lichun Ma, Mahler Revsine, Laura Kuhlman, Karen Zhang, Islam Baiev, Ryan Lamm, Keyur Patel, David E. Kleiner, Stephen M. Hewitt, Bao Tran, Jyoti Shetty, Xiaolin Wu, Yongmei Zhao, Tsai-Wei Shen, Sulbha Choudhari, Yuliya Kriga, Kris Ylaya, Andrew C. Warner, Elijah F. Edmondson, Marshonna Forgues, Tim F. Greten, Xin Wei Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101052
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313915

Abstract:
Summary Primary liver cancer is a rising cause of cancer deaths in the US. Although immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors induces a potent response in a subset of patients, response rates vary among individuals. Predicting which patients will respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors is of great interest in the field. In a retrospective arm of the National Cancer Institute Cancers of the Liver: Accelerating Research of Immunotherapy by a Transdisciplinary Network (NCI-CLARITY) study, we use archived formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples to profile the transcriptome and genomic alterations among 86 hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma patients prior to and following immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment. Using supervised and unsupervised approaches, we identify stable molecular subtypes linked to overall survival and distinguished by two axes of aggressive tumor biology and microenvironmental features. Moreover, molecular responses to immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment differ between subtypes. Thus, patients with heterogeneous liver cancer may be stratified by molecular status indicative of treatment response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Graphical abstract Highlights • Molecular assessment of immune treatment response is feasible with FFPE specimens • Baseline tumors form stable gene clusters linked to survival and treatment response • Baseline clusters exhibit transcriptomic, mutational, and immune response differences • Few transcriptome changes occur in tumors after immunotherapy Budhu et al. identify molecular indicators of the immunotherapy response of liver cancer patients, paramount for improved clinical management. Integrated transcriptome and genome assessment of FFPE specimens prior to and following immunotherapy among the NCI-CLARITY retrospective cohort shows stable molecular subtypes linked to survival, immune alterations, and treatment response.
