Title: Investigation of The Effects of Oxytocin Administration Timing on Postpartum Hemorrhage during Cesarean Section
Authors: Soner Gök, Mehmet Babür Kaleli
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59020222
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967335

Abstract:
Background and Objectives : To determine and compare the effects of the timing of oxytocin administration (routinely used for intraoperative uterotonic purposes in cesarean section (CS) deliveries in our clinic) on the severity of postpartum hemorrhage following CS. Materials and Methods : All study participants ( n = 216) had previous cesarean deliveries, were 38–40 weeks pregnant, and had CS planned under elective conditions. The cases were randomly divided into two groups: one group ( n = 108) receiving oxytocin administration before the removal of the placenta (AOBRP) and another group ( n = 108) receiving oxytocin administration after the removal of the placenta (AOARP). In all cases, the placenta was removed using the manual traction method. The standard dose of oxytocin is administered as an intravenous (IV) push of 3 international units (IU); simultaneously, 10 IU of oxytocin is added to 1000 cc isotonic fluid and given as an IV infusion at a rate of 250 cc/h. All methods and procedures applied to both groups were identical, except for the timing of administration of the standard oxytocin dose. Age, body mass index (BMI), parity, gestational week, preoperative hemoglobin (HB) and hematocrit (HTC), postoperative 6th and 24th hour HB-HTC, intraoperative hemorrhage, additional uterotonic need during cesarean section, postoperative hemorrhage (number of pads), need for blood transfusion during or after cesarean section, cesarean section time, and postpartum newborn baby weight were evaluated. Results : Age (year), BMI (kg/m 2 ), parity, gestational week, surgical time, and newborn weight (g) did not differ between the groups ( p > 0.05). The AOBRP group had significantly higher postoperative 6th hour HB and HTC and postoperative 24th hour HB and HTC values ( p < 0.05). The intraoperative hemorrhage level was higher in the AOARP group ( p = 0.000). Conclusions : The administration of oxytocin before placenta removal did not change the volume of bleeding in the postoperative period but significantly reduced the volume of bleeding in the intraoperative period. Therefore, in the postoperative period, the HB and HTC values of the AOBRP group were higher than those of the AOARP group.
