Title: Comparison of patient satisfaction between complete dentures fabricated using “conventional” and “cephalometric angular reconstruction” vertical dimension procedures: A multicenter randomized clinical trial
Authors: Dileep Nag Vinnakota, Nagaraj Edamadaka, P Sesha Reddy, Chalapathi Rao Duggineni
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_336_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8884354

Abstract:
Aim: In Prosthodontics, during complete denture fabrication, conventional methods employed to determine occlusal vertical dimension require patient co-operation. Hence, the aim of the present study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of the 'cephalometric angular reconstruction' procedure in the calculation of these lost dimensions. Settings and Design: Multicentric randomised clinical trial conducted in four dental hospitals. Materials and Methods: Fully edentulous people who came to the hospitals for complete denture treatment were recruited into the study. Those who fulfilled the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned to two groups; Group 1: Dentures fabricated using a 'conventional' procedure and Group 2: Dentures fabricated using 'cephalometric angular reconstruction'. The patient's level of satisfaction was assessed on a scale of 1 to 5; 1-dissatisfaction to 5-excellent. The confounding factors that can influence the satisfaction were also recorded. Statistical Analysis Used: The distribution of patient's satisfaction was assessed using Chi-square test, whereas the difference between the two groups was evaluated using Mann–Whitney test. Results: There was no significant difference either in the vertical dimension determined ( P = 0.465) or the patient's level of satisfaction ( P = 0.943) between the two groups. There was no influence of confounding factors considered in the present study on the satisfaction levels. There was no difference in the distribution of satisfaction levels based on the dentist's quality assessment ( P = 0.243). Conclusion: Complete dentures fabricated using cephalometric angular reconstruction procedure of vertical dimension determination were equivalent with respect to patient satisfaction, compared to those made using a conventional method. Hence, the new method can be clinically recommended during denture fabrication.
