Title: Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Overactive Bladder in a Large Cohort of Older Poles—A Representative Tele-Survey
Authors: Mikolaj Przydacz, Jerzy Gasowski, Tomasz Grodzicki, Piotr Chlosta
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12082859
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142045

Abstract:
Background: A reliable reference of population-based parameters for lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and overactive bladder (OAB) is lacking for the elderly. Thus, the objective of this study was to estimate the prevalence, bother, effect on quality of life, and treatment-related behavior for LUTS and OAB in a large population-level cohort of Polish adults aged ≥ 65 years. Methods: We used data from the telephone LUTS POLAND survey. Respondents were categorized by sex, age, and residence. All LUTS and OAB were assessed with validated questionnaires and a standard protocol based on the International Continence Society definitions. Results: The mean (standard deviation) age of 2402 participants (60.4% women) was 72.5 (6.7) years. The prevalence of LUTS was 79.5% (men: 76.6%; women: 81.4%), and the prevalence of OAB was 51.4% (men: 49.4%; women: 52.8%). The prevalence of both conditions increased with age. The most prevalent symptom was nocturia. LUTS and OAB were often bothersome, and almost half of participants who reported LUTS or OAB had decreased quality of life related to their urinary functioning. Nevertheless, only one third of participants sought treatment for their bladder problems, and most of these participants received treatment. We did not observe differences between urban and rural areas in all analyzed population-level parameters. Conclusions: LUTS and OAB were prevalent conditions with significant bother and negative effects on quality of life among Polish adults aged ≥ 65 years. Nevertheless, most affected respondents had not sought treatment. Thus, for older persons, there is a need to increase public awareness about LUTS and OAB, and the negative effects of LUTS and OAB on healthy aging. In addition, greater government and healthcare system resources are needed to better manage LUTS and OAB in older patients.
