Title: Long-Term Immunological Consequences of Radiation Exposure in a Diverse Cohort of Rhesus Macaques
Authors: Matthew J. French, Ryan Wuerker, Greg Dugan, John D. Olson, Brittany R. Sanders, Janet A. Tooze, David L. Caudell, J. Mark Cline, Gregory D. Sempowski, Andrew N. Macintyre
Year: 2023
Venue: International journal of radiation oncology, biology, physics
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2022.10.024
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974872

Abstract:
Purpose: The aim of this study was to develop an improved understanding of the delayed immunologic effects of acute total body irradiation (TBI) using a diverse cohort of nonhuman primates as a model for an irradiated human population. Methods and Materials: Immune recovery was evaluated in 221 rhesus macaques either left unirradiated (n = 36) or previously irradiated (n = 185) at 1.1 to 8.5 Gy TBI (median, 6.5 Gy) when aged 2.1 to 15.5 years (median, 4.2 years). Blood was drawn annually for up to 5 years total between 0.5 and 14.3 years after exposure. Blood was analyzed by complete blood count, immunophenotyping of monocytes, dendritic cells (DC) and lymphocytes by flow cytometry, and signal joint T-cell receptor exclusion circle quantification in isolated peripheral blood CD4 and CD8 T cells. Animals were categorized by age, irradiation status, and time since irradiation. Sex-adjusted means of immune metrics were evaluated by generalized estimating equation models to identify cell populations altered by TBI. Results: Overall, the differences between irradiated and nonirradiated animals were subtle and largely restricted to younger animals and select cell populations. Subsets of monocytes, DC, T cells, and B cells showed significant interaction effects between radiation dose and age after adjustment for sex. Irradiation at a young age caused transient increases in the percentage of peripheral blood myeloid DC and dose-dependent changes in monocyte balance for at least 5 years after TBI. TBI also led to a sustained decrease in the percentage of circulating memory B cells. Young irradiated animals exhibited statistically significant and prolonged disruption of the naïve/effector memory/central memory CD4 and CD8 T-cell equilibrium and exhibited a dose-dependent increase in thymopoiesis for 2 to 3 years after exposure. Conclusions: This study indicates TBI subtly but significantly alters the circulating proportions of cellular mediators of adaptive immune memory for several years after irradiation, especially in macaques under 5 years of age and those receiving a high dose of radiation.
