Title: Cone beam computed tomographic evaluation of infraorbital canal protrusion into the maxillary sinus and its importance for endoscopic surgery
Authors: Gozde Serindere, Mehmet Serindere
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2022.07.002
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801060

Abstract:
Highlights • Accurate diagnosis of ICP is very important in preventing infraorbital nerve damage in endoscopic sinus surgery. • Ignoring the ICP may cause undesirable results during endoscopic sinus surgery. • Therefore, in all conditions, maximum attention should be paid to anatomical variations in surgical procedures. Objective The aim of this retrospective study is to investigate the prevalence of Infraorbital Canal Protrusion (ICP) degree into the maxillary sinus and its relationship with variations in adjacent structures on Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) images. Methods 350 CBCT images (700 Infraorbital Canal [IC]) were evaluated retrospectively. ICP was divided into 3 subtypes according to the protrusion degree. The correlation between IC types and variations in adjacent anatomical structures (Haller cell, middle nasal concha pneumatization, maxillary sinus mucosal thickening and septa) was evaluated. The distance between Infraorbital Canal and Cnine Root (IC-CR) was also measured. For type 3, measurements were performed on IC as the length of the bony septum from the IC to the Mxillary Sinus Wall (IC-MSW), the distance from the inferior orbital rim, where the IC begins to protrude into the maxillary sinus (IOR-ICP), the vertical distance from the IC to the Maxillary Sinus Roof (IC-MSR) and Floor (IC-MSF). Results The prevalence of type 1, 2 and 3 was 62.9%, 29.1%, and 8% respectively. IC-CR was 10.2, 10.7 and 11.4 mm in type 1, 2 and 3, respectively. IC-MSW, IOR-ICP, IC-MSR and floor IC-MSF was 3.8, 10.9, 7.4 and 27.7 mm, respectively. On the right and left side, statistically significant correlation was found between IC types and the presence of the Haller cell and sinus septa. But there was no significant correlation between IC types and middle concha pneumatization. Conclusion Accurate diagnosis of ICP is very important in preventing infraorbital nerve damage in surgical procedures to be performed in the maxillary region. The results of this study could be a guide for surgical planning in this region. Level of evidence Retrospective study.
