Title: The Core Symptoms of Adolescents Online and Offline Gambling in South Korea Using Network Analysis
Authors: Yunhye Oh, Yoo-Sook Joung, Ji Hyun Baek
Year: 2023
Venue: Psychiatry Investigation
DOI: 10.30773/pi.2022.0116
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10064209

Abstract:
Objective Adolescent gambling is rapidly increasing recently. However, little is known about the core feature of adolescent gambling that should be the treatment target for adolescents. Thus, the objective of this study was to determine the core symptom of adolescent gambling using network analysis with large-scale data targeting community indwelling adolescents. Methods We used dataset of the 2018 national survey on youth gambling problems collected by the Korea Center on Gambling Problems to explore symptom networks of gambling in adolescents. Of 17,520 respondents in the dataset of the 2018 national survey on youth gambling problems collected by the Korea Center on Gambling Problems, 5,619 adolescents with experience of gambling were included in the analysis. We computed an association network, a graphical least absolute shrinkage and selection operator, and a directed acyclic graph to model symptom interactions. Results In each network of online, offline, and all gambling, stealing money or other valuable things in order to gamble or pay off gambling debts was the most centrally situated and skipping practice followed by dropping out of activities. Especially strong connections emerged between stealing money or other valuable things in order to gamble or pay off gambling debts and academic performance degradation due to gambling. Feeling bad due to gamble and skipping hanging out with friends who do not gamble emerged as a highly central node that might be distinctive to adolescents with online gambling. Conclusion These findings demonstrate central features of adolescent gambling. Different associations among specific network nodes suggest the existence of distinctive psychopathological constructs between online and offline gambling.
