Title: Non-syndromic hypodontia of maxillary lateral incisors and its association with other dental anomalies
Authors: Giana Maria Lupinetti, Peng Li, Kyle Feagin, Mary MacDougall, Ejvis Lamani
Year: 2022
Venue: Progress in Orthodontics
DOI: 10.1186/s40510-022-00451-2
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9800678

Abstract:
Background Tooth agenesis (TA) is the developmental absence of one or more teeth and is the most common craniofacial disorder in humans. Maxillary lateral incisor agenesis (MLIA) is a specific subtype of TA and can have esthetic, functional, and psychosocial implications for patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of MLIA amongst patients with non-syndromic tooth agenesis, as well as its association with other dental anomalies. Materials and methods The dental records of 240 patients with non-syndromic congenitally missing teeth treated at the University of Alabama at Birmingham Department of Orthodontics were reviewed. Dolphin Imaging software was used to identify missing teeth, microdonts, peg laterals, impactions, and transpositions. Data were analyzed using chi-square or Fisher’s exact test. All the tests were two-sided at the significance level of 0.05 (SAS 9.4). Results In the patient cohort, MLIA prevalence was 37.5% (second most common) and no gender or ethnic differences were identified. We also observed the bilaterally missing lateral incisors more frequently than the unilateral presentation ( p = 0.0006). Additionally, 62.5% of patients with unilateral MLIA displayed a contralateral tooth that was a peg ( p = 0.0001); however, no association was found with other microdonts. Furthermore, of the 90 patients missing at least one maxillary lateral incisor, 42.2% were missing another tooth type and 10% of MLIA patients also had an impacted tooth (mainly maxillary canines). However, these were not statistically significant. Finally, no transposed teeth were found in our patients. Conclusions This study found that maxillary lateral incisors were the second most frequently missing teeth. When clinicians diagnose congenital absence of a maxillary lateral incisor, the patient should be evaluated for other missing teeth, peg lateral incisors, or potential impactions, especially maxillary canines.
