Title: In vivo imaging of the human retina using a two-photon excited fluorescence ophthalmoscope
Authors: Jakub Bogusławski, Sławomir Tomczewski, Michał Dąbrowski, Katarzyna Komar, Jadwiga Milkiewicz, Grażyna Palczewska, Krzysztof Palczewski, Maciej Wojtkowski
Year: 2023
Venue: STAR Protocols
DOI: 10.1016/j.xpro.2023.102225
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140148

Abstract:
Summary Noninvasive imaging of endogenous retinal fluorophores, including vitamin A derivatives, is vital to developing new treatments for retinal diseases. Here, we present a protocol for obtaining in vivo two-photon excited fluorescence images of the fundus in the human eye. We describe steps for laser characterization, system alignment, positioning human subjects, and data registration. We detail data processing and demonstrate analysis with example datasets. This technique allays safety concerns by allowing for the acquisition of informative images at low laser exposure. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Bogusławski et al. (2022). 1 Graphical abstract Highlights • Protocol for in vivo imaging of the human retina with two-photon excited fluorescence • Noninvasively shows the fluorophores’ distribution in the human retina • The protocol is supplemented with data processing software and an exemplary dataset • Potential for monitoring eye diseases in the earliest stages before structural damage Publisher’s note: Undertaking any experimental protocol requires adherence to local institutional guidelines for laboratory safety and ethics. Noninvasive imaging of endogenous retinal fluorophores, including vitamin A derivatives, is vital to developing new treatments for retinal diseases. Here, we present a protocol for obtaining in vivo two-photon excited fluorescence images of the fundus in the human eye. We describe steps for laser characterization, system alignment, positioning human subjects and data registration. We detail data processing and demonstrate analysis with example datasets. This technique allays safety concerns by allowing for the acquisition of informative images at low laser exposure.
