Title: The Effects of Clove Oil on The Biochemical and Histological Parameters, and Autophagy Markers in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome-Model Rats
Authors: Malihe Soltani, Maryam Moghimian, Seyed-Hosein Abtahi-Evari, Seyed-Alireza Esmaeili, Ramin Mahdipour, Majid Shokoohi
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Fertility & Sterility
DOI: 10.22074/IJFS.2022.543640.1260
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10189158

Abstract:
Background: This study aimed to determine whether syzygium aromaticum (clove) could help polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) rats. Materials and Methods: In this experimental study, forty adult female Wistar rats (weighing 250 ± 10 g) were divided randomly into five groups; G1: control, G2: PCOS group, G3: PCOS+clove (30 mg/kg/ orally/daily) group, G4: PCOS+clove (60 mg/kg/orally/daily) group, and G5: PCOS+gonadectomy group. The PCOS was induced by a single dose injection of estradiol valerate (16 mg/kg/IM). Following PCOS induction, the rats were treated for 14 days. Histological parameters, follicle apoptosis, mRNA expression of autophagy markers (Lc3, Beclin1), oxidative stress markers, insulin and blood glucose levels, as well as serum levels of aromatase and testosterone were evaluated in these rats. Finally, the ratio of serum luteinizing hormone (LH) to follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels was also calculated. Results: The autophagy markers (Lc3, Beclin1), histological parameters, oxidative stress, insulin, and hormone levels changed significantly in the PCOS rats (G2). In G3 and G5 groups, it was observed that the levels of LH/FSH and testosterone decreased significantly in comparison to the PCOS group, and inhibition of autophagy was also observed in these groups. Treatment with cloves in the G3 group significantly improved oxidative stress, histological parameters, and insulin levels. Conclusion: These findings demonstrated that oxidative stress, apoptosis, and excessive autophagy could be improved by treatment with low doses of clove and gonadectomy. Cloves may help to improve these parameters by regulating and inhibiting excessive autophagy. However, discovering the direct role of this extract in regulating the parameters such as oxidative stress, insulin, and androgens requires further investigation. In the present study, P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
