Title: Intraspecific Variability in Proteomic Profiles and Biological Activities of the Honey Bee Hemolymph
Authors: Salma A. Elfar, Iman M. Bahgat, Mohamed A. Shebl, Mathieu Lihoreau, Mohamed M. Tawfik
Year: 2023
Venue: Insects
DOI: 10.3390/insects14040365
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142140

Abstract:
Simple Summary Insect hemolymph is equivalent to blood in higher vertebrates. It is the main site for immune responses, mediates nutrient transportation to organs and tissues, and has antimicrobial and antioxidant properties. Hemolymph can thus provide information about the health status of an insect. Here we report intraspecific variation in hemolymph properties of Western honey bees Apis mellifera sampled in four locations providing different diets across Egypt. Bees that had access to a rich and varied diet had higher protein concentrations and levels of biological activities in their hemolymph than bees that were only fed sucrose solution. This suggests hemolymph analyses could be used as a powerful indicator for monitoring bee populations, with the aim of improving their health and pollination efficiency. Abstract Pollinator declines have raised major concerns for the maintenance of biodiversity and food security, calling for a better understanding of environmental factors that affect their health. Here we used hemolymph analysis to monitor the health status of Western honey bees Apis mellifera . We evaluated the intraspecific proteomic variations and key biological activities of the hemolymph of bees collected from four Egyptian localities characterized by different food diversities and abundances. Overall, the lowest protein concentrations and the weakest biological activities (cytotoxicity, antimicrobial and antioxidant properties) were recorded in the hemolymph of bees artificially fed sucrose solution and no pollen. By contrast, the highest protein concentrations and biological activities were recorded in bees that had the opportunity to feed on various natural resources. While future studies should expand comparisons to honey bee populations exposed to more different diets and localities, our results suggest hemolymph samples can be used as reliable indicators of bee nutrition.
