Title: Geographical distribution of Ixodes persulcatus and associated pathogens: Analysis of integrated data from a China field survey and global published data
Authors: Shan-Shan Wang, Jin-Yue Liu, Bao-Yu Wang, Wen-Jing Wang, Xiao-Ming Cui, Jia-Fu Jiang, Yi Sun, Wen-Bin Guo, Yu-Sheng Pan, Yu-Hao Zhou, Zhe-Tao Lin, Bao-Gui Jiang, Lin Zhao, Wu-Chun Cao
Year: 2023
Venue: One Health
DOI: 10.1016/j.onehlt.2023.100508
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975318

Abstract:
The increasing incidence and range expansion of tick-borne diseases have caused global threats to human and animal health under the background of climate and socioeconomic changes. As an efficient vector in transmission of tick-borne diseases, a growing burden caused by Ixodes persulcatus and associated pathogens could not be underestimated. This study summarized the distribution, hosts, and pathogens of I. persulcatus , and predicted the suitable habitats of this tick species worldwide. An integrated database involving a field survey, reference book, literature review, and related website was constructed. Location records of I. persulcatus and associated pathogens were incorporated into distribution maps using ArcGIS software. Positive rates for I. persulcatus -associated agents were estimated by meta-analysis. The global distribution of the tick species was predicted using Maxent model. I. persulcatus was distributed in 14 countries across the Eurasian continent, involving Russia, China, Japan, and several Baltic Sea states, which ranged between 21°N to 66°N. The tick species fed on 46 species of hosts, and 51 tick-borne agents could be harbored by I. persulcatus . The predictive model showed that I. persulcatus could be predominantly distributed in northern Europe, western Russia, and northern China. Our study fully clarified the potential public health risks posed by I. persulcatus and I. persulcatus -borne pathogens. Surveillance and control measures of tick-borne diseases should be enhanced to promote the health of humans, animals, and ecosystems. Highlights • Ixodes persulcatus is distributed between 21°N to 66°N, involving 14 countries across the Eurasian continent. • Ixodes persulcatus feeds on 46 species of hosts, indicating high adaptability to different hosts. • Fifty-one species of tick-borne agents could be carried by Ixodes persulcatus , posing a serious threat to public health.
