Title: Hepatic and cardiac implications of increased toxic amyloid-beta serum level in lipopolysaccharide-induced neuroinflammation in rats: new insights into alleviating therapeutic interventions
Authors: Mai M. Anwar, Abeer A. Mabrouk
Year: 2023
Venue: Inflammopharmacology
DOI: 10.1007/s10787-023-01202-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229490

Abstract:
Neuroinflammation is a devastating predisposing factor for Alzheimer’s disease (AD). A number of clinical findings have reported peripheral disorders among AD patients. Amyloid beta (Aβ) is a toxic physiological aggregate that serves as a triggering factor for hepatic and cardiac disorders related to neurotoxicity. As a drawback of Aβ excessive accumulation in the brain, part of Aβ is believed to readily cross the blood–brain barrier (BBB) into the peripheral circulation resulting in serious inflammatory and toxic cascades acting as a direct bridge to cardiac and hepatic pathophysiology. The main aim is to find out whether neuroinflammation-related AD may result in cardiac and liver dysfunctions. Potential therapeutic interventions are also suggested to alleviate AD’s cardiac and hepatic defects. Male rats were divided into: control group I, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-neuroinflammatory-induced group II, LPS-neuroinflammatory-induced group treated with sodium hydrogen sulphide donor (NaHS) (group III), and LPS-neuroinflammatory-induced group treated with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) (group IV). Behavior and histopathological studies were conducted in addition to the estimation of different biological biomarkers. It was revealed that the increased toxic Aβ level in blood resulted in cardiac and hepatic malfunctions as a drawback of exaggerated inflammatory cascades. The administration of NaHS and MSCs proved their efficiency in combating neuroinflammatory drawbacks by hindering cardiac and hepatic dysfunctions. The consistent direct association of decreased heart and liver functions with increased Aβ levels highlights the direct involvement of AD in other organ complications. Thereby, these findings will open new avenues for combating neuroinflammatory-related AD and long-term asymptomatic toxicity. Graphic abstract
