Title: Reconstruction of freehand 3D ultrasound based on kernel regression
Authors: Xiankang Chen, Tiexiang Wen, Xingmin Li, Wenjian Qin, Donglai Lan, Weizhou Pan, Jia Gu
Year: 2014
Venue: BioMedical Engineering OnLine
DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-124
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4165991

Abstract:
Introduction Freehand three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound has the advantages of flexibility for allowing clinicians to manipulate the ultrasound probe over the examined body surface with less constraint in comparison with other scanning protocols. Thus it is widely used in clinical diagnose and image-guided surgery. However, as the data scanning of freehand–style is subjective, the collected B-scan images are usually irregular and highly sparse. One of the key procedures in freehand ultrasound imaging system is the volume reconstruction, which plays an important role in improving the reconstructed image quality. System and methods A novel freehand 3D ultrasound volume reconstruction method based on kernel regression model is proposed in this paper. Our method consists of two steps: bin-filling and regression. Firstly, the bin-filling step is used to map each pixel in the sampled B-scan images to its corresponding voxel in the reconstructed volume data. Secondly, the regression step is used to make the nonparametric estimation for the whole volume data from the previous sampled sparse data. The kernel penalizes distance away from the current approximation center within a local neighborhood. Experiments and results To evaluate the quality and performance of our proposed kernel regression algorithm for freehand 3D ultrasound reconstruction, a phantom and an in-vivo liver organ of human subject are scanned with our freehand 3D ultrasound imaging system. Root mean square error (RMSE) is used for the quantitative evaluation. Both of the qualitative and quantitative experimental results demonstrate that our method can reconstruct image with less artifacts and higher quality. Conclusion The proposed kernel regression based reconstruction method is capable of constructing volume data with improved accuracy from irregularly sampled sparse data for freehand 3D ultrasound imaging system.
