Title: The pathway for coenzyme M biosynthesis in bacteria
Authors: Hsin-Hua Wu, Michael D. Pun, Courtney E. Wise, Bennett R. Streit, Florence Mus, Anna Berim, William M. Kincannon, Abdullah Islam, Sarah E. Partovi, David R. Gang, Jennifer L. DuBois, Carolyn E. Lubner, Clifford E. Berkman, B. Markus Lange, John W. Peters
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2207190119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457059

Abstract:
Significance Coenzymes are nonprotein molecules of varying molecular weight that are required for certain enzymatic reactions where they function as carriers of functional groups or electrons and in orienting substrates appropriately relative to protein functional groups for catalysis. Coenzyme M (mercaptoethane sulfonate, CoM) is the smallest known organic coenzyme and functions in key roles in pathways for methanogenesis in archaea and in propylene metabolism in bacteria. Elucidating the pathway of CoM biosynthesis in bacteria in this work reveals that CoM is synthesized by different enzymatic transformations than those observed in methanogens from a common metabolite precursor (phosphoenolpyruvate), suggesting that the pathways in archaea and bacteria have evolved through convergent evolution. Mercaptoethane sulfonate or coenzyme M (CoM) is the smallest known organic cofactor and is most commonly associated with the methane-forming step in all methanogenic archaea but is also associated with the anaerobic oxidation of methane to CO 2 in anaerobic methanotrophic archaea and the oxidation of short-chain alkanes in Syntrophoarchaeum species. It has also been found in a small number of bacteria capable of the metabolism of small organics. Although many of the steps for CoM biosynthesis in methanogenic archaea have been elucidated, a complete pathway for the biosynthesis of CoM in archaea or bacteria has not been reported. Here, we present the complete CoM biosynthesis pathway in bacteria, revealing distinct chemical steps relative to CoM biosynthesis in methanogenic archaea. The existence of different pathways represents a profound instance of convergent evolution. The five-step pathway involves the addition of sulfite, the elimination of phosphate, decarboxylation, thiolation, and the reduction to affect the sequential conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate to CoM. The salient features of the pathway demonstrate reactivities for members of large aspartase/fumarase and pyridoxal 5′-phosphate–dependent enzyme families.
