Title: CONFERD-HP: recommendations for reporting COmpeteNcy FramEwoRk Development in health professions
Authors: Alan M Batt, Walter Tavares, Tanya Horsley, Jessica V Rich, Brett Williams, Tim Wilkinson, Eleanor Beck, Katarzyna Czabanowska, Gerard Fitzgerald, Elizabeth Halcomb, Karen Hauer, Deborah Hsu, Tamara Köhler, Lindy H Landzaat, Laura J Morrison, Claire Palermo, Eneline A H Pessoa, Gail Sullivan, Sean Tackett, Emma Tonkin, Riva Touger-Decker, Tim Wilkinson
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac394
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364529

Abstract:
Abstract Background Competency frameworks outline the perceived knowledge, skills, attitudes, and other attributes required for professional practice. These frameworks have gained in popularity, in part for their ability to inform health professions education, assessment, professional mobility, and other activities. Previous research has highlighted inadequate reporting related to their development which may then jeopardize their defensibility and utility. Methods This study aimed to develop a set of minimum reporting criteria for developers and authors of competency frameworks in an effort to improve transparency, clarity, interpretability and appraisal of the developmental process, and its outputs. Following guidance from the Enhancing the QUAlity and Transparency Of health Research (EQUATOR) Network, an expert panel was assembled, and a knowledge synthesis, a Delphi study, and workshops were conducted using individuals with experience developing competency frameworks, to identify and achieve consensus on the essential items for a competency framework development reporting guideline. Results An initial checklist was developed by the 35-member expert panel and the research team. Following the steps listed above, a final reporting guideline including 20 essential items across five sections (title and abstract; framework development; development process; testing; and funding/conflicts of interest) was developed. Conclusion The COmpeteNcy FramEwoRk Development in Health Professions (CONFERD-HP) reporting guideline permits a greater understanding of relevant terminology, core concepts, and key items to report for competency framework development in the health professions. The CONFERD-HP guideline outlines a set of essential reporting criteria for developers and authors of competency frameworks in an effort to improve transparency, clarity, interpretability, and appraisal of the developmental process and its outputs. The guideline will help readers develop a greater understanding of relevant terminology, core concepts, and key items to report for competency framework development in the health professions. fx1
