Title: Reduced parenting stress following a prevention program decreases internalizing and externalizing symptoms in the offspring of parents with bipolar disorder
Authors: Tiffany Resendes, Lisa Serravalle, Vanessa Iacono, Mark A. Ellenbogen
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Bipolar Disorders
DOI: 10.1186/s40345-022-00284-2
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971411

Abstract:
Background Offspring of parents with bipolar disorder (OBD) are at risk for developing mental disorders, and the literature suggests that parenting stress may represent an important risk factor linking parental psychopathology to offspring psychopathology. We aimed to investigate whether improvements in parenting stress mediated the relationship between participation in a prevention program and offspring internalizing and externalizing symptoms at follow-up. Methods Families having a parent with BD ( N = 25) underwent a 12-week prevention program. Assessments were conducted at pre-intervention, post-intervention, and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups. Families of parents with no affective disorders (i.e., control families) served as a comparison sample ( N = 28). The Reducing Unwanted Stress in the Home (RUSH) program aimed to teach communication, problem-solving, and organization skills to improve the rearing environment. Measures included the Parenting Stress Index—4th Edition, the Behaviour Assessment Scales for Children—2nd Edition, and the UCLA Life Stress Interview. Results Families having a parent with BD reported more parenting stress at pre-intervention, and more change across time, than control families. Improvements in parenting stress mediated the relationship between participation in the intervention and reduced offspring internalizing and externalizing symptoms. While families having a parent with BD reported more chronic interpersonal stress at pre-intervention, no intervention effects were found. Conclusions The findings demonstrate that a preventative intervention targeting parenting stress in families may serve to prevent the development of mental disorders in at-risk children.
