Title: Inter-α-inhibitor heavy chain H4 and sepsis-related coagulation disturbances: Another link between innate immunity and coagulation
Authors: Julie Brogaard Larsen, Rasmus Pihl, Mathies Appel Aggerbeck, Kim Michael Larsen, Christine Lodberg Hvas, Nanna Johnsen, Mette G. Christensen, Helle Praetorius, Anne-Mette Hvas, Steffen Thiel
Year: 2023
Venue: Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis
DOI: 10.1016/j.rpth.2023.100078
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974438

Abstract:
Background The protease inhibitor inter-α-inhibitor heavy chain H4 (ITIH4) has been described as an acute-phase reactant and could potentially aid in sepsis monitoring and prognostication. Objectives To investigate ITIH4 plasma levels in sepsis patients compared with healthy controls and to examine the association between ITIH4 and acute-phase response markers, blood coagulation, and organ dysfunction in sepsis. Methods We performed a post hoc study to a prospective cohort study. Patients with septic shock (n = 39) were enrolled upon intensive care unit admission. ITIH4 was analyzed using an in-house immunoassay. Standard coagulation parameters, thrombin generation, fibrin formation and lysis, C-reactive protein, organ dysfunction markers, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) score were registered. ITIH4 levels were also investigated in a murine Escherichia coli sepsis model. Results ITIH4 did not display acute-phase behavior as mean ITIH4 levels were not increased in patients with septic shock or in E. coli -infected mice. However, ITIH4 exhibited large interindividual variation in patients with septic shock compared with healthy controls. Low ITIH4 was associated with sepsis-related coagulopathy, including a high DIC score (mean ITIH4: DIC, 203 μg/mL vs non-DIC, 267 μg/mL, P = .01), low antithrombin ( r = 0.70, P < .0001) and decreased thrombin generation (mean ITIH4: first peak thrombin tertile, 210 μg/mL vs third peak thrombin tertile, 303 μg/mL, P = .01). ITIH4 showed moderate correlation with arterial blood lactate (ρ = -0.50, P < .001) but only weak correlations with C-reactive protein, alanine transaminase, bilirubin, and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score (all, ρ < 0.26, P > .05). Conclusion ITIH4 is associated with sepsis-related coagulopathy but is not an acute-phase reactant during septic shock. Essentials • ITIH4 is a recently discovered protein, and not much is known about its function. • We investigated ITIH4 in patients with sepsis (blood poisoning) and healthy blood donors. • ITIH4 was associated with disturbed blood clotting in sepsis and thus may be a marker of more severe disease. • A future larger study should be planned to investigate the potential of ITIH4 as a sepsis biomarker.
