Title: Phylogenetic placement of thermophilic ammonium-tolerant bacteria and their distribution in various composts
Authors: Kazutaka Kuroda
Year: 2023
Venue: Animal Bioscience
DOI: 10.5713/ab.22.0216
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9996265

Abstract:
Objective Previous studies isolated the thermophilic ammonium-tolerant (TAT) bacterium Bacillus sp. TAT105 that grew in composting swine manure with the assimilation of ammonium nitrogen and reduced ammonia emissions during composting. Those studies also investigated the potential for applications of TAT105 to composting. It was observed that the concentration of TAT bacteria, phylogenetically close to TAT105, increased during composting. The objectives of this study were to identify the phylogenetic placement of these TAT bacteria and investigate their distribution in various composts. Methods The phylogenetic placement of TAT105 was examined based on the sequence of 16S ribosomal RNA gene. The genomic DNA homology between TAT105 and the type strains of bacterial species that were phylogenetically close to TAT105 were examined by DNA–DNA hybridization. Moreover, the tolerances of these strains to NH 4 Cl and NaCl were analyzed using a cultivation method. Concentrations of TAT bacteria in various composts were evaluated using an agar medium specific to TAT bacteria and polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Results TAT105 was most closely related to Bacillus thermolactis and Bacillus kokeshiiformis . Many variants of these species have been detected in various environments, including composts. The type strains of these species displayed TAT characteristics that were similar to those of TAT105. Among the composts examined in this study, TAT bacteria were detected at high concentrations (10 5 to 10 9 colony forming units per gram of dry matter) in most of the composts made from cattle manure, swine manure, bark, and excess sludge. Conclusion TAT bacteria comprised B. thermolactis , B. kokeshiiformis , and their phylogenetically close relatives. They were considered to be adaptable to composting of some certain materials, and a favorable target for searching for strains with some useful function that could be applied to composting of these materials.
