Title: The reconstructed ancestral subunit a functions as both V-ATPase isoforms Vph1p and Stv1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
Authors: Gregory C. Finnigan, Victor Hanson-Smith, Benjamin D. Houser, Hae J. Park, Tom H. Stevens
Year: 2011
Venue: Molecular Biology of the Cell
DOI: 10.1091/mbc.E11-03-0244
Paper ID: pmc_PMC3164464

Abstract:
The vacuolar ATPase complex in yeast contains two isoforms of subunit a that dictate the subcellular localization of the V-ATPase enzyme. The most recent common ancestor of subunit a (Anc.a) is reconstructed, and its function and localization in modern Saccharomyces cerevisiae are characterized. Anc.a is able to replace both subunit a isoforms. The vacuolar-type, proton-translocating ATPase (V-ATPase) is a multisubunit enzyme responsible for organelle acidification in eukaryotic cells. Many organisms have evolved V-ATPase subunit isoforms that allow for increased specialization of this critical enzyme. Differential targeting of the V-ATPase to specific subcellular organelles occurs in eukaryotes from humans to budding yeast. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae , the two subunit a isoforms are the only difference between the two V-ATPase populations. Incorporation of Vph1p or Stv1p into the V-ATPase dictates the localization of the V-ATPase to the vacuole or late Golgi/endosome, respectively. A duplication event within fungi gave rise to two subunit a genes. We used ancestral gene reconstruction to generate the most recent common ancestor of Vph1p and Stv1p (Anc.a) and tested its function in yeast. Anc.a localized to both the Golgi/endosomal network and vacuolar membrane and acidified these compartments as part of a hybrid V-ATPase complex. Trafficking of Anc.a did not require retrograde transport from the late endosome to the Golgi that has evolved for retrieval of the Stv1p isoform. Rather, Anc.a localized to both structures through slowed anterograde transport en route to the vacuole. Our results suggest an evolutionary model that describes the differential localization of the two yeast V-ATPase isoforms.
