Title: Psychomotor slowing alters gait velocity, cadence, and stride length and indicates negative symptom severity in psychosis
Authors: Melanie G. Nuoffer, Stephanie Lefebvre, Niluja Nadesalingam, Danai Alexaki, Daniel Baumann Gama, Florian Wüthrich, Alexandra Kyrou, Hassen Kerkeni, Roger Kalla, Sebastian Walther
Year: 2022
Venue: Schizophrenia
DOI: 10.1038/s41537-022-00324-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803648

Abstract:
Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder, in which 50% of the patients present with motor abnormalities such as psychomotor slowing. Slow spontaneous gait has been reported in schizophrenia. However, comprehensive objective instrumental assessments of multiple gait conditions are missing. Finally, the specific gait patterns of subjects with psychomotor slowing are still unknown. Therefore, this study aimed to objectively assess multiple gait parameters at different walking conditions in patients with schizophrenia with and without psychomotor slowing. Also, we hypothesised gait impairments to correlate with expert ratings of hypokinetic movement disorders and negative symptoms. We collected gait data (GAITRite®) in 70 patients with psychomotor slowing (SRRS (Salpetriere retardation rating scale) ≥15), 22 non-psychomotor slowed patients (SRRS < 15), and 42 healthy controls. Participants performed four walking conditions (self-selected speed, maximum speed, head reclined, and eyes closed) and six gait parameters were extracted (velocity, cadence, stride length, functional ambulation profile (FAP), and variance of stride length and time). Patients with psychomotor slowing presented slower velocity, lower cadence, and shorter stride length in all walking conditions compared to healthy controls, with the non-slowed patients in an intermediate position (all F > 16.18, all p < 0.001). Secondly, slower velocity was associated with more severe hypokinetic movement disorders and negative symptoms. In conclusion, gait impairments exist in a spectrum with healthy controls on one end and patients with psychomotor slowing on the other end. Patients with psychomotor slowing are specifically impaired when an adaptation of gait patterns is required, contributing to the deleterious effects of sedentary behaviours.
