Title: Antithrombotic agent usage before ictus in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: relation to hemorrhage severity, clinical course, and outcome
Authors: Hanna Kultanen, Anders Lewén, Elisabeth Ronne-Engström, Per Enblad, Teodor Svedung Wettervik
Year: 2023
Venue: Acta Neurochirurgica
DOI: 10.1007/s00701-023-05556-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140004

Abstract:
Background The number of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) who are on antithrombotic agents before ictus is rising. However, their effect on early brain injury and disease development remains unclear. The primary aim of this study was to determine if antithrombotic agents (antiplatelets and anticoagulants) were associated with a worse initial hemorrhage severity, rebleeding rate, clinical course, and functional recovery after aSAH. Methods In this observational study, those 888 patients with aSAH, treated at the neurosurgical department, Uppsala University Hospital, between 2008 and 2018 were included. Demographic, clinical, radiological (Fisher and Hijdra score), and outcome (Extended Glasgow Outcome Scale one year post-ictus) variables were assessed. Results Out of 888 aSAH patients, 14% were treated with antithrombotic agents before ictus. Seventy-five percent of these were on single therapy of antiplatelets, 23% on single therapy of anticoagulants, and 3% on a combination of antithrombotic agents. Those with antithrombotic agents pre-ictus were significantly older and exhibited more co-morbidities and a worse coagulation status according to lab tests. Antithrombotic agents, both as one group and as subtypes (antiplatelets and anticoagulants), were not associated with hemorrhage severity (Hijdra score/Fisher) nor rebleeding rate. The clinical course did not differ in terms of delayed ischemic neurological deficits or last-tier treatment with thiopental and decompressive craniectomy. These patients experienced a higher mortality and lower rate of favorable outcome in univariate analyses, but this did not hold true in multiple logistic regression analyses after adjustment for age and co-morbidities. Conclusions After adjustment for age and co-morbidities, antithrombotic agents before aSAH ictus were not associated with worse hemorrhage severity, rebleeding rate, clinical course, or long-term functional recovery. Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00701-023-05556-z.
