Title: Perception of Nurses’ Support among Family Members of Hospitalized Patients in A Tertiary Health Facility in South-West, Nigeria
Authors: Cecilia Bukola Bello, Oluwasayo Bolarinwa Ogunlade, Deborah Tolulope Esan, Olasupo Augustine Ijabadeniyi, Adebanke Covenant Bello
Year: 2023
Venue: SAGE Open Nursing
DOI: 10.1177/23779608231160479
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974613

Abstract:
Introduction Family members of hospitalized patients are often faced with challenges and may experience difficulty in coping without appropriate support. The aim of this study was to assess hospitalized patients' family members' perception of nurses' support. Methods A cross-sectional descriptive design was utilized. A total of 138 family members of hospitalized patients in a tertiary health facility were selected using a purposive sampling technique. Data were collected with an adopted structured questionnaire. Analyses of data were performed using frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation, and multiple regression. The level of significance was set at 0.05 ( p < .05. Also, age, gender, and type of family were the predictors of emotional support ( R 2 = 84, F (6, 131) = 5.92, p < .05. Results Twenty-seven qualitative studies were included in the review. A thematic synthesis showed over 100 themes and subthemes across the studies. A cluster analysis revealed positive elements and others that were seen in the studies as a barrier (hindrance) to clinical learning. Positive elements included supportive instructors, close supervision, and belonging (in the team). Unsupportive instructors, a lack of supervision and not being included were seen as a hindrance. Three key overarching themes that could describe a successful placement were revealed as “Preparation,” “Welcomed and wanted” and “Supervision experiences”. A conceptual model of clinical placement elements conducive to nursing students’ learning was developed to enhance understanding of the complexities associated with supervision. The findings and model are presented and discussed. Conclusion A significant number of families of hospitalized patients reported poor perception of cognitive, emotional, and overall support from nurses. Adequate staffing is a prerequisite for effective family support. Nurses also need appropriate training in providing family support. The focus of family support training should emphasize practices that nurses can use in everyday interactions with patients and family members.
