Title: Mitochondrial control of microglial phagocytosis by the translocator protein and hexokinase 2 in Alzheimer’s disease
Authors: Lauren H. Fairley, Kei Onn Lai, Jia Hui Wong, Wei Jing Chong, Anselm Salvatore Vincent, Giuseppe D’Agostino, Xiaoting Wu, Roshan R. Naik, Anusha Jayaraman, Sarah R. Langley, Christiane Ruedl, Anna M. Barron
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2209177120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974442

Abstract:
Significance Microglia are responsible for protecting the brain. Defense demands the rapid production of large amounts of energy. But how microglial metabolism is controlled to fuel defense responses such as phagocytosis remains poorly understood. We demonstrate that mitochondrial translocator protein (TSPO) and hexokinase-2 play key roles in the control of microglial metabolism and phagocytosis by coordinating the balance of energy production via two major metabolic pathways. Microglia lacking TSPO resembled dysfunctional microglia observed in aging and Alzheimer's disease, and this could be partially reversed by blocking hexokinase-2 binding to the mitochondria. We find that targeting mitochondrial hexokinase-2 binding may offer an immunotherapeutic approach to inhibit glycolytic metabolic reprogramming and promote microglial phagocytosis in Alzheimer’s disease. Microglial phagocytosis is an energetically demanding process that plays a critical role in the removal of toxic protein aggregates in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Recent evidence indicates that a switch in energy production from mitochondrial respiration to glycolysis disrupts this important protective microglial function and may provide therapeutic targets for AD. Here, we demonstrate that the translocator protein (TSPO) and a member of its mitochondrial complex, hexokinase-2 (HK), play critical roles in microglial respiratory-glycolytic metabolism and phagocytosis. Pharmacological and genetic loss-of-function experiments showed that TSPO is critical for microglial respiratory metabolism and energy supply for phagocytosis, and its expression is enriched in phagocytic microglia of AD mice. Meanwhile, HK controlled glycolytic metabolism and phagocytosis via mitochondrial binding or displacement. In cultured microglia, TSPO deletion impaired mitochondrial respiration and increased mitochondrial recruitment of HK, inducing a switch to glycolysis and reducing phagocytosis. To determine the functional significance of mitochondrial HK recruitment, we developed an optogenetic tool for reversible control of HK localization. Displacement of mitochondrial HK inhibited glycolysis and improved phagocytosis in TSPO-knockout microglia. Mitochondrial HK recruitment also coordinated the inflammatory switch to glycolysis that occurs in response to lipopolysaccharide in normal microglia. Interestingly, cytosolic HK increased phagocytosis independent of its metabolic activity, indicating an immune signaling function. Alzheimer’s beta amyloid drastically stimulated mitochondrial HK recruitment in cultured microglia, which may contribute to microglial dysfunction in AD. Thus, targeting mitochondrial HK may offer an immunotherapeutic approach to promote phagocytic microglial function in AD.
