Title: Nucleic acid biomarkers of immune response and cell and tissue damage in children with COVID-19 and MIS-C
Authors: Conor J. Loy, Alicia Sotomayor-Gonzalez, Venice Servellita, Jenny Nguyen, Joan Lenz, Sanchita Bhattacharya, Meagan E. Williams, Alexandre P. Cheng, Andrew Bliss, Prachi Saldhi, Noah Brazer, Jessica Streithorst, William Suslovic, Charlotte J. Hsieh, Burak Bahar, Nathan Wood, Abiodun Foresythe, Amelia Gliwa, Kushmita Bhakta, Maria A. Perez, Laila Hussaini, Evan J. Anderson, Ann Chahroudi, Meghan Delaney, Atul J. Butte, Roberta L. DeBiasi, Christina A. Rostad, Iwijn De Vlaminck, Charles Y. Chiu
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101034
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10121104

Abstract:
Summary Differential host responses in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) remain poorly characterized. Here, we use next-generation sequencing to longitudinally analyze blood samples from pediatric patients with COVID-19 or MIS-C across three hospitals. Profiling of plasma cell-free nucleic acids uncovers distinct signatures of cell injury and death between COVID-19 and MIS-C, with increased multiorgan involvement in MIS-C encompassing diverse cell types, including endothelial and neuronal cells, and an enrichment of pyroptosis-related genes. Whole-blood RNA profiling reveals upregulation of similar pro-inflammatory pathways in COVID-19 and MIS-C but also MIS-C-specific downregulation of T cell-associated pathways. Profiling of plasma cell-free RNA and whole-blood RNA in paired samples yields different but complementary signatures for each disease state. Our work provides a systems-level view of immune responses and tissue damage in COVID-19 and MIS-C and informs future development of new disease biomarkers. Graphical abstract Highlights • Patients with MIS-C and COVID-19 have distinct cell injury and host response profiles • Patients with MIS-C and COVID-19 have elevated solid-organ-derived cell-free DNA • Patients with MIS-C have increased endothelium- and neuron-derived cell-free RNA • Cell-free and whole-blood RNA provide complementary measurements of patient health Loy et al. use cell-free RNA, whole-blood RNA, and cell-free DNA sequencing to characterize distinct host response and cellular injury profiles in pediatric patients with MIS-C and/or COVID-19. This study highlights the complementary information from cell-free and whole-blood RNA analyses, with broad implications for future liquid biopsy applications.
