Title: Pre-incubation with hucMSC-exosomes prevents cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity by activating autophagy
Authors: Bingying Wang, Haoyuan Jia, Bin Zhang, Juanjuan Wang, Cheng Ji, Xueming Zhu, Yongmin Yan, Lei Yin, Jing Yu, Hui Qian, Wenrong Xu
Year: 2017
Venue: Stem Cell Research & Therapy
DOI: 10.1186/s13287-016-0463-4
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5385032

Abstract:
Background The administration of cisplatin is limited due to its nephrotoxic side effects, and prevention of this nephrotoxicity of cisplatin is difficult. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived exosomes have been implicated as a novel therapeutic approach for tissue injury. In this study, we demonstrated that the pretreatment of human umbilical cord MSC-derived exosomes (hucMSC-Ex) can prevent the development of cisplatin-induced renal toxicity by activation of autophagy in vitro and in vivo. Methods In vitro, rat renal tubular epithelial (NRK-52E) cells were pre-incubated with exosomes from hucMSC or HFL1 (human lung fibroblast cells; as control) for 30 min, and 3-methyladenine (an autophagic inhibitor) and rapamycin (an autophagic inducer) for 1 h before cisplatin treatment for 8 h, respectively. Cells were harvested for apoptosis assay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blot, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). In vivo , we constructed cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury rat models. Prior to treatment with cisplatin for 0.5 h, hucMSC-Ex or HFL1-Ex were injected into the kidneys via the renal capsule. 3-methyladenine and rapamycin were injected under the kidney capsule before hucMSC-Ex. All animals were sacrificed at 3 days after cisplatin injection. Renal function, Luminex assay, tubular apoptosis and proliferation, and autophagy response were evaluated. Results hucMSC-Ex inhibited cisplatin-induced mitochondrial apoptosis and secretion of inflammatory cytokines in renal tubular epithelial cells in vitro. hucMSC-Ex increased the expression of the autophagic marker protein LC3B and the autophagy-related genes ATG5 and ATG7 in NRK-52E cells. Rapamycin mimicked the effects of hucMSC-Ex in protecting against cisplatin-induced renal injury, while the effects were abrogated by the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine in the animals. Conclusions Our findings indicate that the activation of autophagy induced by hucMSC-Ex can effectively relieve the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin. Therefore, pre-treatment of hucMSC-Ex may be a new method to improve the therapeutic effect of cisplatin. Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13287-016-0463-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
