Title: Conformational rearrangements in the second voltage sensor domain switch PIP 2 - and voltage-gating modes in two-pore channels
Authors: Takushi Shimomura, Kiichi Hirazawa, Yoshihiro Kubo
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2209569120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9963007

Abstract:
Significance Membrane voltage and PIP 2 are different types of signals on endosomal and lysosomal membranes. The two signals are integrated into two-pore channels (TPCs), whose two repeating domains, DI and DII, play roles in PIP 2 binding and voltage sensing, respectively. We showed that the conformation of the S4 helix in DII determines the voltage-dependent or PIP 2 -dependent gating mode, which explains the different preferences of the two signals between the TPC subtypes. The preference for these two gating modes can be changed by the flavonoid, naringenin. Our findings on the molecular mechanisms of the two gating modes in TPCs provide a clue to the understanding and pharmacological manipulation of the signaling by PIP 2 and voltage in intracellular organelles. Two-pore channels (TPCs) are activated by phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate (PIP 2 ) binding to domain I and/or by voltage sensing in domain II (DII). Little is known about how these two stimuli are integrated, and how each TPC subtype achieves its unique preference. Here, we show that distinct conformations of DII-S4 in the voltage-sensor domain determine the two gating modes. DII-S4 adopts an intermediate conformation, and forced stabilization in this conformation was found to result in a high PIP 2 -dependence in primarily voltage-dependent TPC3. In TPC2, which is PIP 2 -gated and nonvoltage-dependent, a stabilized intermediate conformation does not affect the PIP 2 -gated currents. These results indicate that the intermediate state represents the PIP 2 -gating mode, which is distinct from the voltage-gating mode in TPCs. We also found in TPC2 that the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine induces DII-S4-based voltage dependence and that naringenin, a flavonoid, biases the mode preference from PIP 2 -gating to desipramine-induced voltage gating. Taken together, our study on TPCs revealed an unprecedented mode-switching mechanism involving conformational changes in DII-S4, and its active role in integrating voltage and PIP 2 stimuli.
