Title: Oral-resident natural Th17 cells and γδ T cells control opportunistic Candida albicans infections
Authors: Heather R. Conti, Alanna C. Peterson, Lucas Brane, Anna R. Huppler, Nydiaris Hernández-Santos, Natasha Whibley, Abhishek V. Garg, Michelle R. Simpson-Abelson, Gregory A. Gibson, Anna J. Mamo, Lisa C. Osborne, Shrinivas Bishu, Nico Ghilardi, Ulrich Siebenlist, Simon C. Watkins, David Artis, Mandy J. McGeachy, Sarah L. Gaffen
Year: 2014
Venue: The Journal of Experimental Medicine
DOI: 10.1084/jem.20130877
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4172215

Abstract:
Conti et al. show that IL-17 is produced by tongue-resident populations of γδ T cells and nTh17 cells in response to oropharyngeal candidiasis in mice. Oropharyngeal candidiasis (OPC) is an opportunistic fungal infection caused by Candida albicans . OPC is frequent in HIV/AIDS, implicating adaptive immunity. Mice are naive to Candida , yet IL-17 is induced within 24 h of infection, and susceptibility is strongly dependent on IL-17R signaling. We sought to identify the source of IL-17 during the early innate response to candidiasis. We show that innate responses to Candida require an intact TCR, as SCID, IL-7Rα −/− , and Rag1 −/− mice were susceptible to OPC, and blockade of TCR signaling by cyclosporine induced susceptibility. Using fate-tracking IL-17 reporter mice, we found that IL-17 is produced within 1–2 d by tongue-resident populations of γδ T cells and CD3 + CD4 + CD44 hi TCRβ + CCR6 + natural Th17 (nTh17) cells, but not by TCR-deficient innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) or NK cells. These cells function redundantly, as TCR-β −/− and TCR-δ −/− mice were both resistant to OPC. Whereas γδ T cells were previously shown to produce IL-17 during dermal candidiasis and are known to mediate host defense at mucosal surfaces, nTh17 cells are poorly understood. The oral nTh17 population expanded rapidly after OPC, exhibited high TCR-β clonal diversity, and was absent in Rag1 −/− , IL-7Rα −/− , and germ-free mice. These findings indicate that nTh17 and γδ T cells, but not ILCs, are key mucosal sentinels that control oral pathogens.
