Title: No evidence for local adaptation to salt stress in the existing populations of invasive Solidago canadensis in China
Authors: Junmin Li, Haiyan Liu, Ming Yan, Leshan Du
Year: 2017
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175252
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5383265

Abstract:
Local adaptation is an important mechanism underlying the adaptation of plants to environmental heterogeneity, and the toxicity of salt results in strong selection pressure on salt tolerance in plants and different ecotypes. Solidago canadensis , which is invasive in China, has spread widely and has recently colonized alkali sandy loams with a significant salt content. A common greenhouse experiment was conducted to test the role of local adaptation in the successful invasion of S . canadensis into salty habitats. Salt treatment significantly decreased the growth of S . canadensis , including rates of increase in the number of leaves and plant height; the root, shoot, and total biomass. Furthermore, salt stress significantly reduced the net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, transpiration rate and relative chlorophyll content but significantly increased peroxidase activity and the proline content of S . canadensis and the root/shoot ratio. Two-way analysis of variance showed that salt treatment had a significant effect on the physiological traits of S . canadensis , except for the intercellular CO 2 concentration, whereas the population and the salt × population interaction had no significant effect on any physiological traits. Most of the variation in plasticity existed within and not among populations, excep for the root/shoot ratio. S . canadensis populations from soil with moderate/high salt levels grew similarly to S . canadensis populations from soils with low salt levels. No significant correlation between salt tolerance indices and soil salinity levels was observed. The plasticity of the proline content, intercellular CO 2 concentration and chlorophyll content had significant correlations with the salt tolerance index. These findings indicate a lack of evidence for local adaption in the existing populations of invasive S . canadensis in China; instead, plasticity might be more important than local adaptation in influencing the physiological traits and salt tolerance ability across the S . canadensis distribution.
