Title: The smectic Z A phase: Antiferroelectric smectic order as a prelude to the ferroelectric nematic
Authors: Xi Chen, Vikina Martinez, Eva Korblova, Guillaume Freychet, Mikhail Zhernenkov, Matthew A. Glaser, Cheng Wang, Chenhui Zhu, Leo Radzihovsky, Joseph E. Maclennan, David M. Walba, Noel A. Clark
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2217150120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974471

Abstract:
Significance A persistent theme that has emerged from the century-long experimental and theoretical study of ferroelectric crystals and liquid crystals is that ferroelectricity and antiferroelectricity go hand-in-hand, such that if one is found, the other will also be in the same or closely related families of materials. At the root of this behavior is the frustration inherent in steric and electrostatic dipolar interactions, exemplified by the latter, for which dipole pairs arranged end-to-end prefer to be parallel, while dipole side-by-side pairs prefer to be antiparallel. Here, we show that the unexpected recent discovery of the ferroelectric nematic phase and its nearly perfect ferroelectric polar order, is a pathway to antiferroelectricity in fluids, realized in a lamellar smectic array of fluid sheets of alternating polarity. We have structurally characterized the liquid crystal (LC) phase that can appear as an intermediate state when a dielectric nematic, having polar disorder of its molecular dipoles, transitions to the almost perfectly polar-ordered ferroelectric nematic. This intermediate phase, which fills a 100-y-old void in the taxonomy of smectic LCs and which we term the “smectic Z A ,” is antiferroelectric, with the nematic director and polarization oriented parallel to smectic layer planes, and the polarization alternating in sign from layer to layer with a 180 Å period. A Landau free energy, originally derived from the Ising model of ferromagnetic ordering of spins in the presence of dipole–dipole interactions, and applied to model incommensurate antiferroelectricity in crystals, describes the key features of the nematic–SmZ A –ferroelectric nematic phase sequence.
