Title: Microfluidic Post-Insertion Method for the Efficient Preparation of PEGylated Liposomes Using High Functionality and Quality Lipids
Authors: Yuri Sugimoto, Tadaharu Suga, Naoya Kato, Mizuki Umino, Asako Yamayoshi, Hidefumi Mukai, Shigeru Kawakami
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Nanomedicine
DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S390866
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805735

Abstract:
Introduction Targeted liposomes using ligand peptides have been applied to deliver therapeutic agents to the target sites. The post-insertion method is commonly used because targeted liposomes can be prepared by simple mixing of ligand peptide-lipid and liposomes. A large-scale preparation method is required for the clinical application of ligand-peptide-modified liposomes. Large-scale preparation involves an increase in volume and a change in the preparation conditions. Therefore, the physicochemical properties of liposomes may change owing to large alterations in the preparation conditions. To address this issue, we focused on a microfluidic device and developed a novel ligand peptide modification method, the microfluidic post-insertion method. Methods We used integrin αvβ3-targeted GRGDS (RGD) and cyclic RGDfK (cRGD)-modified high functionality and quality (HFQ) lipids, which we had previously developed. First, the preparation conditions of the total flow rate in the microfluidic device for modifying HFQ lipids to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified (PEGylated) liposomes were optimized by evaluating the physicochemical properties of the liposomes. The targeting ability of integrin αvβ3-expressing colon 26 murine colorectal carcinoma cells was evaluated by comparing the cellular association properties of the liposomes prepared by the conventional post-insertion method. Results When the RGD-HFQ lipid was modified into PEGylated liposomes by varying the total flow rate (1, 6, and 12 mL/min) of the microfluidic device, as the total flow rate increased, the polydispersity index also increased, whereas the particle size did not change. Furthermore, the RGD- and cRGD-modified PEGylated liposomes prepared at a total flow rate of 1 mL/min showed high cellular association properties equivalent to those prepared by the conventional post-insertion method. Conclusion Microfluidic post-insertion method of HFQ lipids might be useful for clinical application and large-scale preparation of targeted liposomes.
