Title: Changes in Physical Activity Due to Fear of COVID-19 and Its Impact on Depression Among Post-Liver Transplant Patients in Japan: A Longitudinal Survey Study
Authors: Satomi Tanaka, Kimie Fujita, Kanako Yakushiji, Noboru Harada, Tomoharu Yoshizumi
Year: 2022
Venue: Annals of Transplantation
DOI: 10.12659/AOT.938239
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9737614

Abstract:
Background Regular physical activity (PA) is important for maintaining mental and physical health after liver transplantation (LT); however, the fluctuations in routine PA during COVID-19 and its putative impacts are currently unknown. This study examined the changes in PA during the COVID-19 pandemic and explored its association with fear and depression during the pandemic. Material/Methods This longitudinal study included 83 LT patients whose PA was measured using the short form of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire before and during COVID-19. Fear of COVID-19 was estimated based on previous studies, and depression was assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9. Participants were also asked about important sources of information on COVID-19. PA was classified as inactive or active depending on the changes in PA, and logistic regression analyses with PA as a dependent variable were conducted to explore the associations among PA, depression, and fear of COVID-19. Results Moderate and high PA exhibited decreasing trends before and during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in males. Fear of being infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, while shopping was significantly higher in females and was significantly independent of inactivity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Only 1 patient reported that their transplant center was their main source of information about COVID-19. Only 4.9% of the LT participants were depressed. Conclusions Our study results indicate the need to support the provision of accurate information about COVID-19 by health care professionals in transplant centers, especially for patients with low PA, to prevent PA decline in LT patients.
