Title: Adolescent and young adult ( AYA ) oncology: A credentialed area of focused competence in Canada
Authors: Amirrtha Srikanthan, Jolanta Karpinski, Abha Gupta
Year: 2022
Venue: Cancer Medicine
DOI: 10.1002/cam4.5024
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9883556

Abstract:
Abstract Background Adolescents and young adults (AYA, ages 15–39 years) affected by cancer have unique treatment, survivorship, and palliation concerns. Current oncology training does not focus on the distinctive needs of this demographic. Amid this recognition, the Canadian National AYA Cancer Task Force and Canadian Partnership Against Cancer have advocated the need for clinicians with formalized AYA experience. To address this need and standardize training, a national task force developed criteria for structured academic programs in AYA Oncology in Canada. Methods Workshops were organized to identify and establish the fundamentals of practice in AYA Oncology through consensus. These workshops followed the pre‐existing rigorous process established by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (Royal College) for new program development. The process includes: (i) developing the tasks associated with the discipline's practice, (ii) identifying the evidence trainees must provide to demonstrate tasks can be performed independently (the competence portfolio), (iii) developing training requirements and summarizing the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to perform these tasks, and (iv) identifying specific experiences essential to acquiring skills and demonstrating competent performance. Results AYA Oncology is a recognized an Area of Focused Competence (AFC) by the Royal College. Conclusion The AFC designation in AYA Oncology provides a standardized curriculum, training experience and accreditation process to attract oncologists, promote expertise and advance AYA oncology care. The Formally Credentialed Area of Focused Competence Diploma designation through the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology provides a standardized curriculum, training experience and accreditation process to attract oncologists, promote expertise and advance AYA oncology care.
