Title: Cellular Uptake of Modified Mesoporous Bioactive Glass Nanoparticles for Effective Intracellular Delivery of Therapeutic Agents
Authors: Negar Hassani Besheli, Juul Verbakel, Maryam Hosseini, Lea Andrée, Ben Joosten, X Frank Walboomers, Alessandra Cambi, Fang Yang, Sander C G Leeuwenburgh
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Nanomedicine
DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S397297
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066699

Abstract:
Introduction There has recently been a surge of interest in mesoporous bioactive glass nanoparticles (MBGNs) as multi-functional nanocarriers for application in bone-reconstructive and -regenerative surgery. Their excellent control over their structural and physicochemical properties renders these nanoparticles suitable for the intracellular delivery of therapeutic agents to combat degenerative bone diseases, such as bone infection, or bone cancer. Generally, the therapeutic efficacy of nanocarriers strongly depends on the efficacy of their cellular uptake, which is determined by numerous factors including cellular features and the physicochemical characteristics of nanocarriers, particularly surface charge. In this study, we have systematically investigated the effect of the surface charge of MBGNs doped with copper as a model therapeutic agent on cellular uptake by both macrophages and pre-osteoblast cells involved in bone healing and bone infections to guide the future design of MBGN-based nanocarriers. Methods Cu-MBGNs with negative, neutral, and positive surface charges were synthesized and their cellular uptake efficiency was assessed. Additionally, the intracellular fate of internalized nanoparticles along with their ability to deliver therapeutic cargo was studied in detail. Results The results showed that both cell types internalized Cu-MBGNs regardless of their surface charge, indicating that cellular uptake of nanoparticles is a complex process influenced by multiple factors. This similarity in cellular uptake was attributed to the formation of a protein corona surrounding the nanoparticles when exposed to protein-rich biological media, which masks the original nanoparticle surface. Once internalized, the nanoparticles were found to mainly colocalize with lysosomes, exposing them to a more compartmentalized and acidic environment. Furthermore, we verified that Cu-MBGNs released their ionic components (Si, Ca, and Cu ions) in both acidic and neutral environments, leading to the delivery of these therapeutic cargos intracellularly. Conclusion The effective internalization of Cu-MBGNs and their ability to deliver cargos intracellularly highlight their potential as intracellular delivery nanocarriers for bone-regenerative and -healing applications. Graphical Abstract
