Title: Degradation of EEG microstates patterns in subjective cognitive decline and mild cognitive impairment: Early biomarkers along the Alzheimer’s Disease continuum?
Authors: Michael Lassi, Carlo Fabbiani, Salvatore Mazzeo, Rachele Burali, Alberto Arturo Vergani, Giulia Giacomucci, Valentina Moschini, Carmen Morinelli, Filippo Emiliani, Maenia Scarpino, Silvia Bagnoli, Assunta Ingannato, Benedetta Nacmias, Sonia Padiglioni, Silvestro Micera, Sandro Sorbi, Antonello Grippo, Valentina Bessi, Alberto Mazzoni
Year: 2023
Venue: NeuroImage : Clinical
DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2023.103407
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149415

Abstract:
Highlights • EEG reveals differences between prodromal stages of Alzheimer’s Disease. • Microstates analysis yield more inter-condition differences than spectral and network metrics. • Microstate C topography differs significantly in patients positive to cerebrospinal fluid Alzheimer’s biomarkers. Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathological changes may begin up to decades earlier than the appearance of the first symptoms of cognitive decline. Subjective cognitive decline (SCD) could be the first pre-clinical sign of possible AD, which might be followed by mild cognitive impairment (MCI), the initial stage of clinical cognitive decline. However, the neural correlates of these prodromic stages are not completely clear yet. Recent studies suggest that EEG analysis tools characterizing the cortical activity as a whole, such as microstates and cortical regions connectivity, might support a characterization of SCD and MCI conditions. Here we test this approach by performing a broad set of analyses to identify the prominent EEG markers differentiating SCD (n = 57), MCI (n = 46) and healthy control subjects (HC, n = 19). We found that the salient differences were in the temporal structure of the microstates patterns, with MCI being associated with less complex sequences due to the altered transition probability, frequency and duration of canonic microstate C. Spectral content of EEG, network connectivity, and spatial arrangement of microstates were instead largely similar in the three groups. Interestingly, comparing properties of EEG microstates in different cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers profiles, we found that canonic microstate C displayed significant differences in topography in AD-like profile. These results show that the progression of dementia might be associated with a degradation of the cortical organization captured by microstates analysis, and that this leads to altered transitions between cortical states. Overall, our approach paves the way for the use of non-invasive EEG recordings in the identification of possible biomarkers of progression to AD from its prodromal states.
