Title: Effects of β-glucan with vitamin E supplementation on the growth performance, blood profiles, immune response, pork quality, pork flavor, and economic benefit in growing and finishing pigs
Authors: Tae Wook Goh, Hong Jun Kim, Kunyong Moon, Yoo Yong Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Animal Bioscience
DOI: 10.5713/ab.22.0433
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10164540

Abstract:
Objective This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of β-glucan with vitamin E supplementation on the growth performance, blood profiles, immune response, pork quality, pork flavor, and economic benefit in growing and finishing pigs. Methods A total of 140 growing pigs ([Yorkshire×Landrace]×Duroc) were assigned to five treatments considering sex and initial body weight (BW) in 4 replications with 7 pigs per pen in a randomized complete block design. The experimental diets included a corn-soybean meal-based basal diet with or without 0.05% or 0.1% β-glucan and 0.02% vitamin E. The pigs were fed the diets for 12 weeks (phase I, 0 to 3; phase II, 3 to 6; phase III, 6 to 9; phase IV, 9 to 12). The BW and feed intake were measured at the end of each phase. Blood samples were collected at the end of each phase. Four pigs from each treatment were selected and slaughtered for meat quality. Economic benefit was calculated considering the total feed intake and feed price. Pork flavor was analyzed through inosine monophosphate analysis. Results The average daily gain and feed efficiency were improved compared to the control when β-glucan or vitamin E was added. Supplementing 0.05% β-glucan significantly increased the lymphocyte concentration compared to the addition of 0.1% β-glucan and the content of vitamin E in the blood increased when 0.02% vitamin E was added. The treatment with 0.1% β-glucan and 0.02% vitamin E showed the most economic effect because it had the shortest days to market weight and the lowest total feed cost. The addition of β-glucan or vitamin E had a positive role in improving the flavor of pork when considering that the content of inosine monophosphate was increased. However, carcass traits and meat quality were not affected by β-glucan or vitamin E. Conclusion The addition of 0.1% β-glucan with 0.02% vitamin E in growing and finishing pig diets showed great growth performance and economic effects by supplying vitamin E efficiently and by improving the health condition of pigs due to β-glucan.
