Title: Design and synthesis of a small molecular NIR-II chemiluminescence probe for in vivo - activated H 2 S imaging
Authors: Zhongxiang Chen, Lichao Su, Ying Wu, Jianyong Liu, Rongrong Wu, Qian Li, Chenlu Wang, Luntao Liu, Jibin Song
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2205186120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974472

Abstract:
Significance Chemiluminescence is a peculiar phenomenon that the chemical energy could convert into luminescence, which has been widely explored for molecular imaging. To address the limitations of chemiluminescence in the visible window, such as low resolution and penetration, an H 2 S-activated unimolecular probe CD-950 with chemiluminescence in the NIR-II region was developed. By virtue of high efficiency of resonance energy transfer between chemiluminescence donor and fluorophore acceptor, CD-950 showed bright signal at 950 nm specifically triggered by H 2 S. H 2 S-activated NIR-II chemiluminescence performed greatly increased resolution and higher signal-to-noise ratio than that of NIR-II fluorescence in vivo. The superiority of NIR-II chemiluminescence signifies its importance as a chemiluminescence-based probe for biological imaging. Chemiluminescence (CL) with the elimination of excitation light and minimal autofluorescence interference has been wieldy applied in biosensing and bioimaging. However, the traditional emission of CL probes was mainly in the range of 400 to 650 nm, leading to undesired resolution and penetration in a biological object. Therefore, it was urgent to develop CL molecules in the near-infrared window [NIR, including NIR-I (650 to 900 nm) and near-infrared-II (900 to 1,700 nm)], coupled with unique advantages of long-time imaging, sensitive response, and high resolution at depths of millimeters. However, no NIR-II CL unimolecular probe has been reported until now. Herein, we developed an H 2 S-activated NIR-II CL probe [chemiluminiscence donor 950, (CD-950)] by covalently connecting two Schaap’s dioxetane donors with high chemical energy to a NIR-II fluorophore acceptor candidate via intramolecular CL resonance energy transfer strategy, thereby achieving high efficiency of 95%. CD-950 exhibited superior capacity including long-duration imaging (~60 min), deeper tissue penetration (~10 mm), and specific H 2 S response under physiological conditions. More importantly, CD-950 showed detection capability for metformin-induced hepatotoxicity with 2.5-fold higher signal-to-background ratios than that of NIR-II fluorescence mode. The unimolecular NIR-II CL probe holds great potential for the evaluation of drug-induced side effects by tracking its metabolites in vivo, further facilitating the rational design of novel NIR-II CL-based detection platforms.
