Title: A Comprehensive Review on Pharmacological Activities of Pachypodol: A Bioactive Compound of an Aromatic Medicinal Plant Pogostemon Cablin Benth
Authors: Sehrish Fatima, Iqra Farzeen, Asma Ashraf, Bilal Aslam, Muhammad Umar Ijaz, Sumreen Hayat, Muhammad Hassan Sarfraz, Saima Zafar, Nimrah Zafar, Jeremiah Oshiomame Unuofin, Sogolo Lucky Lebelo, Saima Muzammil
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083469
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141922

Abstract:
As is well known, plant products have been increasingly utilized in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. By combining conventional techniques and modern methodology, the future of phytomedicines appears promising. Pogostemon Cablin (patchouli) is an important herb used frequently in the fragrance industries and has various therapeutic benefits. Traditional medicine has long used the essential oil of patchouli ( P. cablin ) as a flavoring agent recognized by the FDA. This is a gold mine for battling pathogens in China and India. In recent years, this plant has seen a significant surge in use, and approximately 90% of the world’s patchouli oil is produced by Indonesia. In traditional therapies, it is used for the treatment of colds, fever, vomiting, headaches, and stomachaches. Patchouli oil is used in curing many diseases and in aromatherapy to treat depression and stress, soothe nerves, regulate appetite, and enhance sexual attraction. More than 140 substances, including alcohols, terpenoids, flavonoids, organic acids, phytosterols, lignins, aldehydes, alkaloids, and glycosides, have been identified in P. cablin . Pachypodol (C18H16O7) is an important bioactive compound found in P. cablin. Pachypodol (C18H16O7) and many other biologically essential chemicals have been separated from the leaves of P. cablin and many other medicinally significant plants using repeated column chromatography on silica gel. Pachypodol’s bioactive potential has been shown by a variety of assays and methodologies. It has been found to have a number of biological activities, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-mutagenic, antimicrobial, antidepressant, anticancer, antiemetic, antiviral, and cytotoxic ones. The current study, which is based on the currently available scientific literature, intends to close the knowledge gap regarding the pharmacological effects of patchouli essential oil and pachypodol, a key bioactive molecule found in this plant.
