Title: Psychopathology predicts mental but not physical bariatric surgery outcome at 3-year follow-up: a network analysis study
Authors: Alessio Maria Monteleone, Inbal Globus, Giammarco Cascino, Anat Brunstein Klomek, Yael Latzer
Year: 2022
Venue: Eating and Weight Disorders
DOI: 10.1007/s40519-022-01463-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803758

Abstract:
Purpose This study aimed to explore the psychopathological variables that may predict bariatric surgery outcomes after 3 years. Methods One hundred ninety-six candidates for bariatric surgery completed self-report questionnaires to assess eating attitudes, eating disorder (ED)-related psychopathology, affective symptoms, interpersonal and psycho-social functioning. One-hundred patients repeated this assessment 3 years after bariatric surgery. A network analysis was run including the pre-surgical measurements in the network. A composite score derived from the combination of the most central network nodes, as well as clinical and socio-demographical variables, was included in a multivariate regression analysis with weight loss, ED psychopathology and psycho-social functioning as outcomes. Results Depression, stress, and shape concerns were the most central network nodes. The composite network score predicted higher ED psychopathology and worse psycho-social functioning at 3-year follow-up, but not weight loss. Higher age, restricting type of bariatric surgery and higher pre-operative BMI were further predictors of reduced weight loss and greater ED psychopathology. Conclusions Affective symptoms and shape concern play a central role in the psychopathology of candidates to bariatric surgery and predict post-surgery ED psychopathology and psycho-social functioning. These variables may allow to identify patients with higher pre-operative risk and in need of further psycho-social interventions. Level of evidence III, evidence obtained from well-designed cohort study. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40519-022-01463-x.
