Title: ProCPU Is Expressed by (Primary) Human Monocytes and Macrophages and Expression Differs between States of Differentiation and Activation
Authors: Karen Claesen, Joni De Loose, Pieter Van Wielendaele, Emilie De bruyn, Yani Sim, Sofie Thys, Ingrid De Meester, Dirk Hendriks
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Molecular Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/ijms24043725
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967989

Abstract:
Carboxypeptidase U (CPU, TAFIa, CPB2) is a potent attenuator of fibrinolysis that is mainly synthesized by the liver as its inactive precursor proCPU. Aside from its antifibrinolytic properties, evidence exists that CPU can modulate inflammation, thereby regulating communication between coagulation and inflammation. Monocytes and macrophages play a central role in inflammation and interact with coagulation mechanisms resulting in thrombus formation. The involvement of CPU and monocytes/macrophages in inflammation and thrombus formation, and a recent hypothesis that proCPU is expressed in monocytes/macrophages, prompted us to investigate human monocytes and macrophages as a potential source of proCPU. CPB2 mRNA expression and the presence of proCPU/CPU protein were studied in THP-1, PMA-stimulated THP-1 cells and primary human monocytes, M-CSF-, IFN-γ/LPS-, and IL-4-stimulated-macrophages by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, enzyme activity measurements, and immunocytochemistry. CPB2 mRNA and proCPU protein were detected in THP-1 and PMA-stimulated THP-1 cells as well as in primary monocytes and macrophages. Moreover, CPU was detected in the cell medium of all investigated cell types and it was demonstrated that proCPU can be activated into functionally active CPU in the in vitro cell culture environment. Comparison of CPB2 mRNA expression and proCPU concentrations in the cell medium between the different cell types provided evidence that CPB2 mRNA expression and proCPU secretion in monocytes and macrophages is related to the degree to which these cells are differentiated. Our results indicate that primary monocytes and macrophages express proCPU. This sheds new light on monocytes and macrophages as local proCPU sources.
