Title: The effects of Pandanus tectorius leaf extract on the resistance of White-leg shrimp Penaeus vannamei towards pathogenic Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Authors: Anupa Anirudhan, Mat Taib Mimi Iryani, Yosie Andriani, Patrick Sorgeloos, Min Pau Tan, Li Lian Wong, Wen Jye Mok, Wang Ming, Liang Yantao, Cher Chien Lau, Yeong Yik Sung
Year: 2023
Venue: Fish and Shellfish Immunology Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsirep.2023.100101
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313901

Abstract:
Highlights • Pandanus tectorius leaf extract protects Penaeus vannamei against Vibrio parahaemolyticus . • Pandanus tectorius leaf extract upregulates immune genes Hsp70, crustin and prophenoloxidase. • Pretreatment of shrimps with Pandanus tectorius leaf extract prevents major tissue injuries. Pandanus tectorius leaf extract effect on the White-leg shrimp Penaeus vannamei tolerance against Vibrio parahaemolyticus were investigated in this study. Thirty shrimp post-larvae measured at approximately 1 cm were exposed for 24 h to 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 g/L leaf extract and subsequently observed for survival and immune-related genes expression ( Hsp70, ProPO , peroxinectin, penaeidin, crustin and transglutaminase), followed by determination of their tolerance and histological tissue profiles upon Vibrio challenge. Survival of shrimps treated with 6 g/L of leaf extract improved by up to 95% to controls. Hsp70, crustin, and prophenoloxidase mRNA levels were observed to be 8.5, 10.4, and 1.5-fold higher, respectively. Histopathological analysis of the hepatopancreas and the muscle tissues revealed major tissue degeneration in Vibrio -challenged shrimps but not in shrimps primed with P. tectorius leaf extract. Of all the dose examined, the best pathogen resistance results were obtained with a 24 h incubation of shrimp in 6 g/L P. tectorius methanolic leaf extract. The tolerance towards V. parahaemolyticus might be associated with the increased regulation of Hsp70 , prophenoloxidase and crustin upon exposure to the extract, all immune-related proteins essential for pathogen elimination in Penaeid shrimp. The present study primarily demonstrated that P. tectorius leaf extract is a viable alternative for enhancing P. vannamei post-larvae resistance against V. parahaemolyticus , a major bacterial pathogen in aquaculture.
