Title: The Rate of Avoidable Pancreatic Resections at a High-Volume Center: An Internal Quality Control and Critical Review
Authors: Niccolò Surci, Christiane Sophie Rösch, Patrick Kirchweger, Lukas Havranek, Paul von Boetticher, Ines Fischer, Helwig Valentin Wundsam, Matthias Biebl, Reinhold Függer
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12041625
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967180

Abstract:
Background: The incidence of benign diseases among pancreatic resections for suspected malignancy still represents a relevant issue in the surgical practice. This study aims to identify the preoperative pitfalls that led to unnecessary surgeries at a single Austrian center over a twenty-year period. Methods: Patients undergoing surgery for suspected pancreatic/periampullary malignancy between 2000 and 2019 at the Linz Elisabethinen Hospital were included. The rate of “mismatches” between clinical suspicion and histology was considered as primary outcome. All cases that, despite that, fulfilled the indication criteria for surgery were defined as minor mismatches (MIN-M). Conversely, the true avoidable surgeries were identified as major mismatches (MAJ-M). Results: Among the 320 included patients, 13 (4%) presented with benign lesions at definitive pathology. The rate of MAJ-M was 2.8% ( n = 9), and the most frequent causes of misdiagnoses were autoimmune pancreatitis ( n = 4) and intrapancreatic accessory spleen ( n = 2). In all MAJ-M cases, various mistakes within the preoperative workup were detected: lack of multidisciplinary discussion ( n = 7, 77.8%); inappropriate imaging ( n = 4, 44.4%); lack of specific blood markers ( n = 7, 77.8%). The morbidity and mortality rates for mismatches were 46.7% and 0. Conclusion: All avoidable surgeries were the result of an incomplete pre-operative workup. The adequate identification of the underlying pitfalls could lead to minimize and, potentially, overcome this phenomenon with a concrete optimization of the surgical-care process.
