Title: The SET oncoprotein promotes estrogen-induced transcription by facilitating establishment of active chromatin
Authors: Changying Guo, Karla F. Meza-Sosa, David Valle-Garcia, Guomeng Zhao, Kun Gao, Liting Yu, Hongying Zhang, Yeqing Chen, Liang Sun, Shira Rockowitz, Shouyu Wang, Sheng Jiang, Judy Lieberman
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206878120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974495

Abstract:
Significance The estrogen receptor ERα regulates expression of genes essential for growth of ERα + breast cancer. Estrogen-mediated transcription is regulated by epigenetic changes to histones and chromatin architecture. Here, we demonstrate that the SET oncoprotein, an ATP-independent histone chaperone, whose functions in oncogenesis are not well understood, critically regulates ERα-mediated transcription by helping establish an active chromatin structure at key estrogen-regulated promoters and enhancers. SET knock down strongly inhibits estrogen-induced transcription. Because SET interacts with other transcription factors, including p53 and glucocorticoid, androgen, and thyroid receptors, SET also likely regulates transcription of other hormone-responsive genes. Our findings suggest that antagonizing SET is a potential therapeutic strategy for ERα + breast cancer. SET is a multifunctional histone-binding oncoprotein that regulates transcription by an unclear mechanism. Here we show that SET enhances estrogen-dependent transcription. SET knockdown abrogates transcription of estrogen-responsive genes and their enhancer RNAs. In response to 17β-estradiol (E2), SET binds to the estrogen receptor α (ERα) and is recruited to ERα-bound enhancers and promoters at estrogen response elements (EREs). SET functions as a histone H2 chaperone that dynamically associates with H2A.Z via its acidic C-terminal domain and promotes H2A.Z incorporation, ERα, MLL1, and KDM3A loading and modulates histone methylation at EREs. SET depletion diminishes recruitment of condensin complexes to EREs and impairs E2-dependent enhancer-promoter looping. Thus, SET boosts E2-induced gene expression by establishing an active chromatin structure at ERα-bound enhancers and promoters, which is essential for transcriptional activation.
