Title: Risk factors for postoperative morbidity, prolonged length of stay and hospital readmission after appendectomy for acute appendicitis
Authors: Bruno Leonardo Bancke Laverde, Matthias Maak, Melanie Langheinrich, Stephan Kersting, Axel Denz, Christian Krautz, Georg Ferdinand Weber, Robert Grützmann, Maximilian Brunner
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Trauma and Emergency Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00068-023-02225-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229676

Abstract:
Purpose The aim of the present study was to identify risk factors associated with postoperative morbidity and major morbidity, with a prolonged length of hospital stay and with the need of readmission in patients undergoing appendectomy due to acute appendicitis. Methods We performed a retrospective analysis of 1638 adult patients who underwent emergency appendectomy for preoperatively suspected acute appendicitis from 2010 to 2020 at the University Hospital Erlangen. Data including patient demographics, pre-, intra-, and postoperative findings were collected and compared between different outcome groups (morbidity, major morbidity, prolonged length of postoperative hospital stay (LOS) and readmission) from those patients with verified acute appendicitis ( n = 1570). Results Rate of negative appendectomies was 4%. In patients with verified acute appendicitis, morbidity, major morbidity and readmission occurred in 6%, 3% and 2%, respectively. Mean LOS was 3.9 days. Independent risk factors for morbidity were higher age, higher preoperative WBC-count and CRP, lower preoperative hemoglobin, longer time to surgery and longer duration of surgery. As independent risk factors for major morbidity could be identified higher age, higher preoperative CRP, lower preoperative hemoglobin and longer time to surgery. Eight parameters were independent risk factors for a prolonged LOS: higher age, higher preoperative WBC-count and CRP, lower preoperative hemoglobin, need for conversion, longer surgery duration, presence of intraoperative complicated appendicitis and of postoperative morbidity. Presence of malignancy and higher preoperative WBC-count were independent risk factors for readmission. Conclusion Among patients undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis, there are relevant risk factors predicting postoperative complications, prolonged hospital stays and readmission. Patients with the presence of the identified risk factors should receive special attention in the postoperative course and may benefit from a more individualized therapy. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00068-023-02225-9.
