Title: Vaseline gauze packing for the treatment of acute hemorrhagic rectal ulcer: Two case reports
Authors: Sung Kyun Yim, Chang Hun Lee, Seong-Hun Kim, Sang Wook Kim, Seung Young Seo
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicine
DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000033411
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10063288

Abstract:
Rationale: Acute hemorrhagic rectal ulcer (AHRU) is a relatively rare condition characterized by sudden onset, painlessness, and massive hematochezia in patients with severe underlying conditions. When AHRU is encountered, they can often be successfully controlled endoscopically, though recurrent bleeding is common and an alternative treatment must be sought if initial endoscopic treatment fails. We report 2 cases of AHRU which were successfully treated with Vaseline gauze packing after the failure of endoscopic hemostasis. Patient concerns: The first patient was an 88-year-old female that visited our emergency department with hematochezia. She was immobilized because of a left pelvic bone fracture resulting from a slip-down. The initial endoscopy showed fresh blood in her rectum with diffuse ulceration near the dentate line but no active bleeding. However, Massive hematochezia has recurred during conservation. A second patient, an 86-year-old female, debilitated because of schizophrenia, dementia, and past subdural hemorrhage, visited our emergency department, also with massive hematochezia. Her initial endoscopy showed deep ulceration near the dentate line. After admission, she experienced massive hematochezia from an AHRU with an exposed vessel but endoscopic hemostasis failed to control bleeding. Diagnoses: Both patients were diagnosed as AHRU based on the endoscopic findings. Interventions: In both cases, Vaseline gauze packing was performed for bleeding control. Outcomes: After Vaseline gauze packing, no further bleeding occurred and follow-up endoscopy showed definitive improvement of ulcers. Lessons: Based on these cases, we suggest that Vaseline gauze packing may be the alternative treatment for the AHRU which is located near the dentate line when endoscopic hemostasis is difficult or failed. Although further research is needed, Vaseline gauze packing has several potential advantages for the treatment of AHRU, especially in cases involving critically ill elderly patients.
