Title: Clinical Trial Protocol: Developing an Image Classification Algorithm for Prostate Cancer Diagnosis on Three-dimensional Multiparametric Transrectal Ultrasound
Authors: Auke Jager, Arnoud W. Postema, Massimo Mischi, Hessel Wijkstra, Harrie P. Beerlage, Jorg R. Oddens
Year: 2023
Venue: European Urology Open Science
DOI: 10.1016/j.euros.2022.12.018
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975006

Abstract:
Take Home Message There is growing support for population-based early detection programs for prostate cancer. These programs will increase the demand for prebiopsy imaging. Currently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the only available imaging modality for prostate cancer detection. Considering the limited availability of MRI and adequately trained radiologists to read the MRI findings, it will prove a challenge to keep up with the increasing demand. We believe that computer-aided diagnosis using transrectal prostate ultrasound can play an important role in solving this issue. The current trial is designed to be the first step in developing such an ultrasound-based modality. It will provide a large dataset that will be used to develop an image analysis algorithm that can accurately detect prostate cancer on transrectal ultrasound images. Subsequent multicenter, international validation trials will be needed to prove its use in general practice. Introduction and hypothesis The tendency toward population-based screening programs for prostate cancer (PCa) is expected to increase demand for prebiopsy imaging. This study hypothesizes that a machine learning image classification algorithm for three-dimensional multiparametric transrectal prostate ultrasound (3D mpUS) can detect PCa accurately. Design This is a phase 2 prospective multicenter diagnostic accuracy study. A total of 715 patients will be included in a period of approximately 2 yr. Patients are eligible in case of suspected PCa for which prostate biopsy is indicated or in case of biopsy-proven PCa for which radical prostatectomy (RP) will be performed. Exclusion criteria are prior treatment for PCa or contraindications for ultrasound contrast agents (UCAs). Protocol overview Study participants will undergo 3D mpUS, consisting of 3D grayscale, 4D contrast-enhanced ultrasound, and 3D shear wave elastography (SWE). Whole-mount RP histopathology will provide the ground truth to train the image classification algorithm. Patients included prior to prostate biopsy will be used for subsequent preliminary validation. There is a small, anticipated risk for participants associated with the administration of a UCA. Informed consent has to be given prior to study participation, and (serious) adverse events will be reported. Statistical analysis The primary outcome will be the diagnostic performance of the algorithm for detecting clinically significant PCa (csPCa) on a per-voxel and a per-microregion level. Diagnostic performance will be reported as the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Clinically significant PCa is defined as the International Society of Urological grade group ≥2. Full-mount RP histopathology will be used as the reference standard. Secondary outcomes will be sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, and positive predictive value for csPCa on a per-patient level, evaluated in patients included prior to prostate biopsy, using biopsy results as the reference standard. A further analysis will be performed on the ability of the algorithm to differentiate between low-, intermediate-, and high-risk tumors. Discussion and summary This study aims to develop an ultrasound-based imaging modality for PCa detection. Subsequent head-to-head validation trials with magnetic resonance imaging have to be performed in order to determine its role in clinical practice for risk stratification in patients suspected for PCa.
