Title: Retrotransposon-Based Molecular Markers for Analysis of Genetic Diversity within the Genus Linum
Authors: Nataliya V. Melnikova, Anna V. Kudryavtseva, Alexander V. Zelenin, Valentina A. Lakunina, Olga Yu. Yurkevich, Anna S. Speranskaya, Alexey A. Dmitriev, Anastasia A. Krinitsina, Maxim S. Belenikin, Leonid A. Uroshlev, Anastasiya V. Snezhkina, Asiya F. Sadritdinova, Nadezda V. Koroban, Alexandra V. Amosova, Tatiana E. Samatadze, Elena V. Guzenko, Valentina A. Lemesh, Anastasya M. Savilova, Olga A. Rachinskaia, Natalya V. Kishlyan, Tatiana A. Rozhmina, Nadezhda L. Bolsheva, Olga V. Muravenko
Year: 2014
Venue: BioMed Research International
DOI: 10.1155/2014/231589
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4163409

Abstract:
SSAP method was used to study the genetic diversity of 22 Linum species from sections Linum , Adenolinum, Dasylinum, Stellerolinum , and 46 flax cultivars. All the studied flax varieties were distinguished using SSAP for retrotransposons FL9 and FL11 . Thus, the validity of SSAP method was demonstrated for flax marking, identification of accessions in genebank collections, and control during propagation of flax varieties. Polymorphism of Fl1a, Fl1b , and Cassandra insertions were very low in flax varieties, but these retrotransposons were successfully used for the investigation of Linum species. Species clusterization based on SSAP markers was in concordance with their taxonomic division into sections Dasylinum, Stellerolinum, Adenolinum , and Linum . All species of sect. Adenolinum clustered apart from species of sect. Linum . The data confirmed the accuracy of the separation in these sections. Members of section Linum are not as closely related as members of other sections, so taxonomic revision of this section is desirable. L. usitatissimum accessions genetically distant from modern flax cultivars were revealed in our work. These accessions are of utmost interest for flax breeding and introduction of new useful traits into flax cultivars. The chromosome localization of Cassandra retrotransposon in Linum species was determined.
