Title: Comparative population genomics reveals the domestication history of the peach, Prunus persica , and human influences on perennial fruit crops
Authors: Ke Cao, Zhijun Zheng, Lirong Wang, Xin Liu, Gengrui Zhu, Weichao Fang, Shifeng Cheng, Peng Zeng, Changwen Chen, Xinwei Wang, Min Xie, Xiao Zhong, Xiaoli Wang, Pei Zhao, Chao Bian, Yinling Zhu, Jiahui Zhang, Guosheng Ma, Chengxuan Chen, Yanjun Li, Fengge Hao, Yong Li, Guodong Huang, Yuxiang Li, Haiyan Li, Jian Guo, Xun Xu, Jun Wang
Year: 2014
Venue: Genome Biology
DOI: 10.1186/s13059-014-0415-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4174323

Abstract:
Background Recently, many studies utilizing next generation sequencing have investigated plant evolution and domestication in annual crops. Peach, Prunus persica , is a typical perennial fruit crop that has ornamental and edible varieties. Unlike other fruit crops, cultivated peach includes a large number of phenotypes but few polymorphisms. In this study, we explore the genetic basis of domestication in peach and the influence of humans on its evolution. Results We perform large-scale resequencing of 10 wild and 74 cultivated peach varieties, including 9 ornamental, 23 breeding, and 42 landrace lines. We identify 4.6 million SNPs, a large number of which could explain the phenotypic variation in cultivated peach. Population analysis shows a single domestication event, the speciation of P. persica from wild peach. Ornamental and edible peach both belong to P. persica , along with another geographically separated subgroup, Prunus ferganensis . We identify 147 and 262 genes under edible and ornamental selection, respectively. Some of these genes are associated with important biological features. We perform a population heterozygosity analysis in different plants that indicates that free recombination effects could affect domestication history. By applying artificial selection during the domestication of the peach and facilitating its asexual propagation, humans have caused a sharp decline of the heterozygote ratio of SNPs. Conclusions Our analyses enhance our knowledge of the domestication history of perennial fruit crops, and the dataset we generated could be useful for future research on comparative population genomics. Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13059-014-0415-1) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
