Title: Hepatocytes infected with hepatitis C virus change immunological features in the liver microenvironment
Authors: Soo-Jeung Park, Young S. Hahn
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical and Molecular Hepatology
DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2022.0032
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9845665

Abstract:
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is remarkably efficient in establishing viral persistence, leading to the development of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs) are promising HCV therapies to clear the virus. However, recent reports indicate potential increased risk of HCC development among HCV patients with cirrhosis following DAA therapy. CD8+ T-cells participate in controlling HCV infection. However, in chronic hepatitis C patients, severe CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell dysfunctions have been observed. This suggests that HCV may employ mechanisms to counteract or suppress the host T-cell responses. The primary site of viral replication is within hepatocytes where infection can trigger the expression of costimulatory molecules and the secretion of immunoregulatory cytokines. Numerous studies indicate that HCV infection in hepatocytes impairs antiviral host immunity by modulating the expression of immunoregulatory molecules. Hepatocytes expressing whole HCV proteins upregulate the ligands of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) synthesis compared to those in hepatocytes in the absence of the HCV genome. Importantly, HCV-infected hepatocytes are capable of inducing regulatory CD4+ T-cells, releasing exosomes displaying TGF-β on exosome surfaces, and generating follicular regulatory T-cells. Recent studies report that the expression profile of exosome microRNAs provides biomarkers of HCV infection and HCV-related chronic liver diseases. A better understanding of the immunoregulatory mechanisms and identification of biomarkers associated with HCV infection will provide insight into designing vaccine against HCV to bypass HCV-induced immune dysregulation and prevent development of HCV-associated chronic liver diseases.
