Title: SASC: A simple approach to synthetic cohorts for generating longitudinal observational patient cohorts from COVID-19 clinical data
Authors: Takoua Khorchani, Yojana Gadiya, Gesa Witt, Delia Lanzillotta, Carsten Claussen, Andrea Zaliani
Year: 2022
Venue: Patterns
DOI: 10.1016/j.patter.2022.100453
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8825316

Abstract:
Summary One of the impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has been a push for researchers to better exploit synthetic data and accelerate the design, analysis, and modeling of clinical trials. The unprecedented clinical efforts caused by COVID-19’s emergence will certainly boost future robust and innovative approaches of statistical sciences applied to clinical fields. Here, we report the development of SASC, a simple but efficient approach to generate COVID-19-related synthetic clinical data through a web application. SASC takes basic summary statistics for each group of patients and attempts to generate single variables according to internal correlations. To assess the “reliability” of the results, statistical comparisons with Synthea, a known synthetic patient generator tool, and, more importantly, with clinical data of real COVID-19 patients are provided. The source code and web application are available on GitHub, Zenodo, and Mendeley Data. Highlights • From summaries of grouped variables, it is possible to generate synthetic data • Similarity between real and virtual cohorts visualized with Kaplan-Meyer plots • Shiny app for tuning and downloading the synthetic cohort provided to users • SASC performances and result accuracies are similar to or better than Synthea results The bigger picture Virtual cohorts built on synthetic data have received attention lately as they can change the way we work with clinical data. Generating synthetic data very close to "real-world" data without having ethical restrictions can considerably help data analysts in several aspects such as didactic efforts, statistical modeling, and assessments of interventions. We developed SASC, a tool that uses summary statistics of real clinical data to produce synthetic data having the same or a very close summary to the reference variables. SASC displays a performance comparable with, or superior to, that of other virtual cohort tools like Synthea and allows users to optimize the synthetic dataset produced through a Shiny visualizer application interactively. SASC shows that to generate virtual cohorts of patient-level data, no black-box tools are needed. More-than-acceptable datasets can be achieved without neural-network-based virtual cohort generators (e.g., GAN) where generation processes are difficult follow and understand. Starting from patient-level cohort data summaries of grouped variables, and using a modified random-number-generation routine in R, synthetic datasets can be generated possessing quantitative characteristics similar to the real cohort, allowing further analysis in an easy flow scheme.
