Title: Precision recruitment for high-risk participants in a COVID-19 cohort study
Authors: Aziz M. Mezlini, Eamon Caddigan, Allison Shapiro, Ernesto Ramirez, Helena M. Kondow-McConaghy, Justin Yang, Kerry DeMarco, Pejman Naraghi-Arani, Luca Foschini
Year: 2023
Venue: Contemporary Clinical Trials Communications
DOI: 10.1016/j.conctc.2023.101113
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10008035

Abstract:
Background Studies for developing diagnostics and treatments for infectious diseases usually require observing the onset of infection during the study period. However, when the infection base rate incidence is low, the cohort size required to measure an effect becomes large, and recruitment becomes costly and prolonged. We developed a model for reducing recruiting time and resources in a COVID-19 detection study by targeting recruitment to high-risk individuals. Methods We conducted an observational longitudinal cohort study at individual sites throughout the U.S., enrolling adults who were members of an online health and research platform. Through direct and longitudinal connection with research participants, we applied machine learning techniques to compute individual risk scores from individually permissioned data about socioeconomic and behavioral data, in combination with predicted local prevalence data. The modeled risk scores were then used to target candidates for enrollment in a hypothetical COVID-19 detection study. The main outcome measure was the incidence rate of COVID-19 according to the risk model compared with incidence rates in actual vaccine trials. Results When we used risk scores from 66,040 participants to recruit a balanced cohort of participants for a COVID-19 detection study, we obtained a 4- to 7-fold greater COVID-19 infection incidence rate compared with similar real-world study cohorts. Conclusion This risk model offers the possibility of reducing costs, increasing the power of analyses, and shortening study periods by targeting for recruitment participants at higher risk.
