Title: Potential protective effects of Azelnidipine against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in male rats
Authors: Zainab Fakharaldeen, Ahmed Al-Mudhafar, Ali Radhi, Najah Hadi
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Medicine and Life
DOI: 10.25122/jml-2022-0195
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9762371

Abstract:
This study was performed to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of Azelnidipine in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion and to envisage its mechanisms. Twenty-eight adult male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200–300 g were randomized into 4 groups (7 rats in each group). Sham (neck dissection without bilateral common carotid artery occlusion), control (30 minutes of bilateral common carotid artery occlusion and reperfusion for 1 hour), vehicle (identical volume of 0.3% carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) orally every day then bilateral common artery occlusion and reperfusion), and Azelnipine-treated rats (7 days of Azelnidipine pretreatment 3 mg/kg/day followed by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion and reperfusion). In addition to brain infarct volume and histopathological assessment, the brain tissues were harvested to evaluate cerebral IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, ICAM-1, NF-κB p65, and total antioxidant capacity levels. Cerebral levels of IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, NF-κB p65, and ICAM-1, besides cerebral infarct volume, were significantly elevated in control and vehicle related to sham groups, while total antioxidant capacity was markedly reduced. Azelnidipine treatment resulted in remarkable upregulation of total antioxidant capacity; meanwhile, IL-6, TNF-α, NF-κB p65, and ICAM-1 showed a considerable reduction. Cerebral IL-10 levels were not affected by Azelnidipine pretreatment. Histologically, control and vehicle rats showed severe ischemic injury, which was greatly reversed by Azelnidipine treatment. The current study disclosed that Azelnidipine could markedly reduce cerebral infarct volume and ameliorate histopathological damage in male rats exposed to cerebral ischemia/reperfusion. The neuroprotective effects of Azelnidipine probably stemmed from its anti-inflammatory and antioxidative properties. Azelnidipine had no effect on cerebral IL-10 levels.
