Title: Development of a low-cost wearable device for Covid-19 self-quarantine monitoring system
Authors: G.N. Nurkahfi, N. Armi, V.A. Mardiana, M.M.M. Dinata, A. Mitayani, A. Setiarini, B. Prawara, D. Kurniawan, R. Firmansyah, Sudirja, A.F. Rozie, A. Arisal, S. Setiana
Year: 2022
Venue: Public Health in Practice
DOI: 10.1016/j.puhip.2022.100299
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9387171

Abstract:
Objectives The objective of this study is to develop a Bluetooth-based low-cost wearable device for a self-quarantine monitoring system. Study design The designed wearable device focuses on data transmission via Bluetooth, integration of tracking, tracing, and fencing into a single system, and low energy usage from its battery. Methods We design a wearable device using smartphone equipped with GPS, a communication module, Bluetooth low energy (BLE) and a high-capacity battery as a solution for low-cost device with excellent efficiency. We divide the designed system into two parts, the client and the server parts. The client parts are wearable device attached to the individual being monitored and the mobile phone as GPS and telecommunications module. Whereas the server parts are user interface, digital map, notification system, and backend database. Then, the whole system was tested in laboratory and field scale. Results We tested functions of integrated device such as wearable device, mobile applications, and server for laboratory scale test. Then, performing field test with geofencing, communication module, battery, web interface, and resource computing usage. The field test was conducted on a small scale with a limited number of trial patients. We found that the designed wearable device was successfully implemented for both self-quarantine and centralized quarantine requirements. The majority of the components used met the specifications and functioned properly as well. Conclusions A BLE-enabled wearable device can be used for tracking self-quarantine patients. The laboratory and field scale tests demonstrate that the designed wearable device functions properly and meets the requirements. We anticipate that this low-cost wearable device is effective in limiting Covid-19 virus spread and preventing the formation of a new Covid-19 virus-infected cluster.
