Title: Split aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases for proximity-induced stop codon suppression
Authors: Han-Kai Jiang, Nicole L. Ambrose, Christina Z. Chung, Yane-Shih Wang, Dieter Söll, Jeffery M. Tharp
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2219758120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974479

Abstract:
Significance The ability to control gene expression in living cells has many useful applications in biotechnology and medicine. In this study, we report the design and engineering of split orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (o-aaRSs) that can be used to tightly control gene expression in bacteria and in human cells. Furthermore, we show that these split o-aaRSs can serve as useful tools for detecting protein–protein interactions, including those involved human disease. Synthetic biology tools for regulating gene expression have many useful biotechnology and therapeutic applications. Most tools developed for this purpose control gene expression at the level of transcription, and relatively few methods are available for regulating gene expression at the translational level. Here, we design and engineer split orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (o-aaRS) as unique tools to control gene translation in bacteria and mammalian cells. Using chemically induced dimerization domains, we developed split o-aaRSs that mediate gene expression by conditionally suppressing stop codons in the presence of the small molecules rapamycin and abscisic acid. By activating o-aaRSs, these molecular switches induce stop codon suppression, and in their absence stop codon suppression is turned off. We demonstrate, in Escherichia coli and in human cells, that split o-aaRSs function as genetically encoded AND gates where stop codon suppression is controlled by two distinct molecular inputs. In addition, we show that split o-aaRSs can be used as versatile biosensors to detect therapeutically relevant protein–protein interactions, including those involved in cancer, and those that mediate severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 infection.
