Title: Camptothecin-Loaded and Manganese Dioxide-Coated Polydopamine Nanomedicine Used for Magnetic Resonance Imaging Diagnosis and Chemo-Photothermal Therapy for Lung Cancer
Authors: Mingliang Su, Yukun Chen, Lijun Jia, Zhanxia Zhang
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal of Nanomedicine
DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S359300
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805739

Abstract:
Introduction Camptothecin (CPT) is a cytotoxic quinolone alkaloid (isolated from a traditional Chinese medicine Camptotheca acuminata), used for the treatment of various malignancies, which inhibits DNA topoisomerase I (Topo I). However, its drawbacks, such as poor water solubility, stability, and highly toxic side effects, limit its clinical application. Therefore, CPT needs to be prepared as a nanomedicine to improve solubility, reduce side effects, and synergize with other therapies to improve efficacy. Methods In this work, we constructed CPT NPs (nanoparticles), which were CPT-loaded and manganese dioxide (MnO 2 )-coated polydopamine (PDA) nanomedicine. In vitro, we explored the antitumor effect including CPT NPs-induced cell proliferation inhibition, apoptosis and ferroptosis for tumor cell lines. In vivo, we established LLC tumor-bearing mice model to evaluate their tumor imaging and anticancer effects. Results CPT NPs improve the water solubility and stability of CPT and reduce its toxic effects. It has good biocompatibility, excellent photothermal conversion ability for photothermal therapy (PTT) and pH release in the tumor microenvironment. It can inhibit tumor cell proliferation, induce apoptosis and result in ferroptosis of tumor cells. More significantly, this nanomedicine can provide information for the location and diagnosis of tumors via magnetic resonance imaging. In general, the nanomedicine integrated with diagnosis and treatment has excellent anticancer effect. Discussion Altogether, this nanomedicine possesses the ability to diagnose and therapy through magnetic resonance imaging and chemo-photothermal therapy, respectively. In addition, the integrated diagnosis and treatment nanomedicine has potential clinical application prospects through treating lung cancer with high efficiency and low side effect. It can support the construction of related nano-delivery systems. Graphical Abstarct
