Title: Comparison Between Liver Stiffness Measurement by Fibroscan and Splenic Volume Index as NonInvasive Tools for the Early Detection of Oxaliplatin-induced Hepatotoxicity
Authors: Youssef Bouferraa, Yolla Haibe, Elio Jabra, Maya Charafeddine, Malek Kreidieh, Randa Raad, Sally Temraz, Deborah Mukherji, Firas Ershaid, Nadim Muallem, Walid Faraj, Mohamad Khalife, Rania A. Eid, Ali Shamseddine
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hepatology
DOI: 10.1016/j.jceh.2021.06.007
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9077221

Abstract:
Background Oxaliplatin remains an essential component of many chemotherapy protocols for gastrointestinal cancers; however, neurotoxicity and hepatotoxicity may be dose-limiting. The gold standard for the diagnosis of oxaliplatin-induced hepatotoxicity is liver biopsy, which is invasive and costly. Splenomegaly has also been used as a surrogate for liver biopsy in detecting oxaliplatin-induced sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), but splenic measurement is not routine and can be inaccurate and complex. We investigated the correlation between increased liver elasticity assessed by Fibroscan and the increase in spleen volume on cross-sectional imaging after oxaliplatin as a noninvasive technique to assess liver stiffness associated with oxaliplatin-induced SOS. Methods Forty-six patients diagnosed with gastrointestinal cancers and planned to take oxaliplatin containing regimens were included in this prospective study at the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC). Measurement of spleen volume using cross-sectional imaging and of liver elasticity using Fibroscan was performed at baseline, 3 and 6 months after starting oxaliplatin. Mean liver elasticity measurements were compared between patients stratified by the development of splenomegaly using the Student t- test. Splenomegaly was defined as 50% increase in spleen size compared with baseline. Results Patients who developed splenomegaly after oxaliplatin use had significantly higher mean elasticity measurements as reported by Fibroscan at 3 (16.2 vs. 7.8 kPa, P = 0.036) and 6 (9.3 vs. 6.7 kPa, P = 0.03) months. Conclusion Measurement of elasticity using Fibroscan could be potentially used in the future as a noninvasive test for predicting oxaliplatin-induced hepatotoxicity.
