Title: Accuracy of ultrasound for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the emergency department: A systematic review
Authors: Sung Uk Cho, Se Kwang Oh
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicine
DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000033397
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10063291

Abstract:
Background: Point-of-Care Ultrasound (POCUS) is a quick, useful, noninvasive, and inexpensive diagnostic tool used for the diagnosis of trauma, abdominal pain, dyspnea, and chest pain in the emergency department (ED). However, the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound in the ED may be different from those reported in previous studies owing to the setting and time constraints in ED. Methods: We conducted our study in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses guidelines. A literature search was conducted using databases on US National Library of Medicine’s database of biomedical literature, Ovid MEDLINE, online database of biomedical articles, and the collection of databases of systematic reviews and other evidence. The inclusion criteria were the use of bedside ultrasound as a diagnostic tool for acute appendicitis in the ED and the available data on diagnostic parameters such as sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values (NPV). We constructed forest plots and summary receiver operating characteristic curves to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of bedside ultrasound for acute appendicitis in the ED. Results: A total of 21 studies that met the inclusion criteria of this study were included for analysis. The overall pooled sensitivity was 0.81 (95% CI, 0.78–0.83), whereas the pooled specificity was 0.87 (95% CI, 0.85–0.88). However, the I 2 test showed 91.7% and 90.9% heterogeneity in the sensitivity and specificity values, respectively. The summary receiver operating characteristic curves showed high levels of accuracy, as evidenced by an area under the curve of 0.9249 (standard error: 0.0180). Conclusions: The use of ultrasound for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the ED showed that ultrasound has high overall sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. however, high heterogeneity among the included studies was observed.
