Title: Evaluation of an ex vivo fibrogenesis model using human lung slices prepared from small tissues
Authors: Ying Sun, Pengyu Jing, Helina Gan, Xuejiao Wang, Ximing Zhu, Jiangjiang Fan, Haichao Li, Zhipei Zhang, James Chi Jen Lin, Zhongping Gu
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Medical Research
DOI: 10.1186/s40001-023-01104-8
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061769

Abstract:
Background In recent years, there have been breakthroughs in the preclinical research of respiratory diseases, such as organoids and organ tissue chip models, but they still cannot provide insight into human respiratory diseases well. Human lung slices model provides a promising in vitro model for the study of respiratory diseases because of its preservation of lung structure and major cell types. Methods Human lung slices were manually prepared from small pieces of lung tissues obtained from lung cancer patients subjected to lung surgery. To evaluate the suitability of this model for lung fibrosis research, lung slices were treated with CdCl 2 (30 μM), TGF-β1 (1 ng/ml) or CdCl 2 plus TGF-β1 for 3 days followed by toxicity assessment, gene expression analysis and histopathological observations. Results CdCl 2 treatment resulted in a concentration-dependent toxicity profile evidenced by MTT assay as well as histopathological observations. In comparison with the untreated group, CdCl 2 and TGF-β1 significantly induces MMP2 and MMP9 gene expression but not MMP1. Interestingly, CdCl 2 plus TGF-β1 significantly induces the expression of MMP1 but not MMP2, MMP7 or MMP9. Microscopic observations reveal the pathogenesis of interstitial lung fibrosis in the lung slices of all groups; however, CdCl 2 plus TGF-β1 treatment leads to a greater alveolar septa thickness and the formation of fibroblast foci-like pathological features. The lung slice model is in short of blood supply and the inflammatory/immune-responses are considered minimal. Conclusions The results are in favor of the hypothesis that idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is mediated by tissue damage and abnormal repair. Induction of MMP1 gene expression and fibroblast foci-like pathogenesis suggest that this model might represent an early stage of IPF.
