Title: Enhanced hybrid photocatalytic dry reforming using a phosphated Ni-CeO 2 nanorod heterostructure
Authors: Alexandra Tavasoli, Abdelaziz Gouda, Till Zähringer, Young Feng Li, Humayra Quaid, Camilo J. Viasus Perez, Rui Song, Mohini Sain, Geoffrey Ozin
Year: 2023
Venue: Nature Communications
DOI: 10.1038/s41467-023-36982-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10015045

Abstract:
Operating the dry reforming reaction photocatalytically presents an opportunity to produce commodity chemicals from two greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide and methane, however, the top-performing photocatalysts presented in the academic literature invariably rely on the use of precious metals. In this work, we demonstrate enhanced photocatalytic dry reforming performance through surface basicity modulation of a Ni-CeO 2 photocatalyst by selectively phosphating the surface of the CeO 2 nanorod support. An optimum phosphate content is observed, which leads to little photoactivity loss and carbon deposition over a 50-hour reaction period. The enhanced activity is attributed to the Lewis basic properties of the PO 4 3− groups which improve CO 2 adsorption and facilitate the formation of small nickel metal clusters on the support surface, as well as the mechanical stability of CePO 4 . A hybrid photochemical-photothermal reaction mechanism is demonstrated by analyzing the wavelength-dependent photocatalytic activities. The activities, turnover numbers, quantum efficiencies, and energy efficiencies are shown to be on par with other dry-reforming photocatalysts that use noble metals, representing a step forward in understanding how to stabilize ignoble nickel-based dry reforming photocatalysts. The challenges associated with comparing the performance of photocatalysts reported in the academic literature are also commented on. The top-performing dry reforming photocatalysts in the literature rely on the use of precious metals. Here, enhanced photocatalytic dry reforming performance is reported through surface basicity modulation of a Ni/CeO 2 photocatalyst, achieved by selectively phosphating the surface of a CeO 2 nanorod support.
