Title: Alginate Ag/AgCl Nanoparticles Composite Films for Wound Dressings with Antibiofilm and Antimicrobial Activities
Authors: Matteo Puccetti, Anna Donnadio, Maurizio Ricci, Loredana Latterini, Giulia Quaglia, Donatella Pietrella, Alessandro Di Michele, Valeria Ambrogi
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Functional Biomaterials
DOI: 10.3390/jfb14020084
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968148

Abstract:
Recently, silver-based nanoparticles have been proposed as components of wound dressings due to their antimicrobial activity. Unfortunately, they are cytotoxic for keratinocytes and fibroblasts, and this limits their use. Less consideration has been given to the use of AgCl nanoparticles in wound dressings. In this paper, a sustainable preparation of alginate AgCl nanoparticles composite films by simultaneous alginate gelation and AgCl nanoparticle formation in the presence of CaCl 2 solution is proposed with the aim of obtaining films with antimicrobial and antibiofilm activities and low cytotoxicity. First, AgNO 3 alginate films were prepared, and then, gelation and nanoparticle formation were induced by film immersion in CaCl 2 solution. Films characterization revealed the presence of both AgCl and metallic silver nanoparticles, which resulted as quite homogeneously distributed, and good hydration properties. Finally, films were tested for their antimicrobial and antibiofilm activities against Staphylococcus epidermidis (ATCC 12228), Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 29213), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 15692), and the yeast Candida albicans . Composite films showed antibacterial and antibiofilm activities against the tested bacteria and resulted as less active towards Candida albicans . Film cytotoxicity was investigated towards human dermis fibroblasts (HuDe) and human skin keratinocytes (NCTC2544). Composite films showed low cytotoxicity, especially towards fibroblasts. Thus, the proposed sustainable approach allows to obtain composite films of Ag/AgCl alginate nanoparticles capable of preventing the onset of infections without showing high cytotoxicity for tissue cells.
