Title: Sustainable Soil Management: Effects of Clinoptilolite and Organic Compost Soil Application on Eco-Physiology, Quercitin, and Hydroxylated, Methoxylated Anthocyanins on Vitis vinifera
Authors: Eleonora Cataldo, Maddalena Fucile, Davide Manzi, Cosimo Maria Masini, Serena Doni, Giovan Battista Mattii
Year: 2023
Venue: Plants
DOI: 10.3390/plants12040708
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967315

Abstract:
Climate change and compostinS1g methods have an important junction on the phenological and ripening grapevine phases. Moreover, the optimization of these composting methods in closed-loop corporate chains can skillfully address the waste problem (pomace, stalks, and pruning residues) in viticultural areas. Owing to the ongoing global warming, in many wine-growing regions, there has been unbalanced ripening, with tricky harvests. Excessive temperatures in fact impoverish the anthocyanin amount of the must while the serious water deficits do not allow a correct development of the berry, stopping its growth processes. This experiment was created to improve the soil management and the quality of the grapes, through the application of a new land conditioner (Zeowine) to the soil, derived from the compost processes of industrial wine, waste, and zeolite. Three treatments on a Sangiovese vineyard were conducted: Zeowine (ZW) (30 tons per ha), Zeolite (Z) (10 tons per ha), and Compost (C) (20 tons per ha). During the two seasons (2021–2022), measurements were made of single-leaf gas exchange and leaf midday water potential, as well as chlorophyll fluorescence. In addition, the parameters of plant yield, yeast assimilable nitrogen, technological maturity, fractionation of anthocyanins (Cyanidin-3-glucoside, Delphinidin-3-glucoside, Malvidin-3-acetylglucoside, Malvidin-3-cumarylglucoside, Malvidin-3-glucoside, Peonidin-3-acetylglucoside, Peonidin-3-cumarylglucoside, Peonidin-3-glucoside, and Petunidin-3-glucoside), Caffeic Acid, Coumaric Acid, Gallic Acid, Ferulic Acid, Kaempferol-3-O-glucoside, Quercetin-3-O-rutinoside, Quercetin-3-O-glucoside, Quercetin-3-O-galactoside, and Quercetin-3-O-glucuronide were analyzed. The Zeowine and zeolite showed less negative water potential, higher photosynthesis, and lower leaf temperature. Furthermore, they showed higher levels of anthocyanin accumulation and a lower level of quercetin. Finally, the interaction of the beneficial results of Zeowine (soil and grapevines) was evidenced by the embellishment of the nutritional and water efficiency, the minimizing of the need for fertilizers, the closure of the production cycle of waste material from the supply chain, and the improvement of the quality of the wines.
