Title: Thermal Pyocyanin Sensor Based on Molecularly Imprinted Polymers for the Indirect Detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Authors: Margaux Frigoli, Joseph W. Lowdon, Manlio Caldara, Rocio Arreguin-Campos, Julia Sewall, Thomas J. Cleij, Hanne Diliën, Kasper Eersels, Bart van Grinsven
Year: 2023
Venue: ACS Sensors
DOI: 10.1021/acssensors.2c02345
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9887650

Abstract:
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a ubiquitous multi-drug-resistant bacterium, capable of causing serious illnesses and infections. This research focuses on the development of a thermal sensor for the indirect detection of P. aeruginosa infection using molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs). This was achieved by developing MIPs for the detection of pyocyanin, the main toxin secreted by P. aeruginosa . To this end, phenazine was used as a dummy template, evaluating several polymeric compositions to achieve a selective MIP for pyocyanin recognition. The sensitivity of the synthesized MIPs was investigated by UV–vis analysis, with the best composition having a maximum rebinding capacity of 30 μmol g –1 and an imprinting factor (IF) of 1.59. Subsequently, the MIP particles were immobilized onto planar aluminum chips using an adhesive layer, to perform thermal resistance measurements at clinically relevant concentrations of pyocyanin (1.4–9.8 μM), achieving a limit of detection (LoD) of 0.347 ± 0.027 μM. The selectivity of the sensor was also scrutinized by subjecting the receptor to potential interferents. Furthermore, the rebinding was demonstrated in King’s A medium, highlighting the potential of the sensor for the indirect detection of P. aeruginosa in complex fluids. The research culminates in the demonstration of the MIP-based sensor’s applicability for clinical diagnosis. To achieve this goal, an experiment was performed in which the sensor was exposed to pyocyanin-spiked saliva samples, achieving a limit of detection of 0.569 ± 0.063 μM and demonstrating that this technology is suitable to detect the presence of the toxin even at the very first stage of its production.
