Title: HIV-1 prehairpin intermediate inhibitors show efficacy independent of neutralization tier
Authors: Benjamin N. Bell, Theodora U. J. Bruun, Natalia Friedland, Peter S. Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215792120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974412

Abstract:
Significance HIV-1 strains are categorized into three tiers based on their sensitivity to neutralization by patient antisera, but it is poorly understood how these tiers influence the efficacy of inhibitors targeting the prehairpin intermediate (PHI) of HIV-1 glycoprotein Env. Here, we find that a PHI-targeting Ab and protein inhibitor have strikingly consistent neutralization potencies across all three tiers, whereas four broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) currently used in clinical trials show large variability against these viruses. Although PHI-targeting antibodies identified to date generally have modest neutralization potencies, our results demonstrate that the current system of classifying HIV-1 is not relevant for PHI-targeting HIV-1 vaccine efforts and strongly imply that such strategies can provide an especially broad layer of protection. HIV-1 strains are categorized into one of three neutralization tiers based on the relative ease by which they are neutralized by plasma from HIV-1–infected donors not on antiretroviral therapy; tier-1 strains are particularly sensitive to neutralization while tier-2 and tier-3 strains are increasingly difficult to neutralize. Most broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) previously described target the native prefusion conformation of HIV-1 Envelope (Env), but the relevance of the tiered categories for inhibitors targeting another Env conformation, the prehairpin intermediate, is not well understood. Here, we show that two inhibitors targeting distinct highly conserved regions of the prehairpin intermediate have strikingly consistent neutralization potencies (within ~100-fold for a given inhibitor) against strains in all three neutralization tiers of HIV-1; in contrast, best-in-class bnAbs targeting diverse Env epitopes vary by more than 10,000-fold in potency against these strains. Our results indicate that antisera-based HIV-1 neutralization tiers are not relevant for inhibitors targeting the prehairpin intermediate and highlight the potential for therapies and vaccine efforts targeting this conformation.
