Title: Laparoscopic lavage for Hinchey III perforated diverticulitis: factors for treatment failure in two randomized clinical trials
Authors: Najia Azhar, Daniël Lambrichts, Johan Lange, Sheraz Yaqub, Tom Øresland, Johannes Schultz, Willem Bemelman, Pamela Buchwald
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znad114
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364520

Abstract:
Abstract Background The Scandinavian Diverticulitis (SCANDIV) trial and the LOLA arm of the LADIES trial randomized patients with Hinchey III perforated diverticulitis to laparoscopic peritoneal lavage or sigmoid resection. The aim of this analysis was to identify risk factors for treatment failure in patients with Hinchey III perforated diverticulitis. Methods This was a post hoc analysis of the SCANDIV trial and LOLA arm. Treatment failure was defined as morbidity requiring general anaesthesia (Clavien–Dindo grade IIIb or higher) within 90 days. Age, sex, BMI, ASA fitness grade, smoking status, previous episodes of diverticulitis, previous abdominal surgery, time to surgery, and surgical competence were all tested in univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses using an interaction variable. Results The pooled analysis included 222 patients randomized to laparoscopic lavage and primary resection (116 and 106 patients respectively). Univariable analysis found ASA grade to be associated with advanced morbidity in both groups, and the following factors in the laparoscopic lavage group: smoking, corticosteroid use, and BMI. Significant factors for laparoscopic lavage morbidity in multivariable analysis were smoking (OR 7.05, 95 per cent c.i. 2.07 to 23.98; P = 0.002) and corticosteroid use (OR 6.02, 1.54 to 23.51; P = 0.010). Conclusion Active smoking status and corticosteroid use were risk factors for laparoscopic lavage treatment failure (advanced morbidity) in patients with perforated diverticulitis. This study analysed a prospectively collected cohort of patients with Hinchey III diverticulitis from two large randomized trials (SCANDIV and LOLA), aiming to find risk factors for treatment failure. The results showed that only active smoking status and corticosteroid use in the laparoscopic lavage group were risk factors for treatment failure.
