Title: Phylogenetic diversity of eastern Asia–eastern North America disjunct plants is mainly associated with divergence time
Authors: Han-Yang Lin, Miao Sun, Ya-Jun Hao, Daijiang Li, Matthew A. Gitzendanner, Cheng-Xin Fu, Douglas E. Soltis, Pamela S. Soltis, Yun-Peng Zhao
Year: 2023
Venue: Plant Diversity
DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2022.09.008
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975473

Abstract:
The underlying causes of biodiversity disparities among geographic regions have long been a fundamental theme in ecology and evolution. However, the patterns of phylogenetic diversity (PD) and phylogenetic beta diversity (PBD) of congeners that are disjunctly distributed between eastern Asia–eastern North America (EA−ENA disjuncts) and their associated factors remain unknown. Here we investigated the standardized effect size of PD (SES-PD), PBD, and potentially associated factors in 11 natural mixed forest sites (five in EA and six in ENA) where abundant EA−ENA disjuncts occur. We found that the disjuncts in ENA possessed higher SES-PD than those in EA at the continental scale (1.96 vs −1.12), even though the number of disjunct species in ENA is much lower than in EA (128 vs 263). SES-PD of the EA−ENA disjuncts tended to decrease with increasing latitude in 11 sites. The latitudinal diversity gradient of SES-PD was stronger in EA sites than in ENA sites. Based on the unweighted unique fraction metric (UniFrac) distance and the phylogenetic community dissimilarity, PBD showed that the two northern sites in EA were more similar to the six-site ENA group than to the remaining southern EA sites. Based on the standardized effect size of mean pairwise distances (SES-MPD), nine of eleven studied sites showed a neutral community structure (−1.96 ≤ SES-MPD ≤ 1.96). Both Pearson's r and structural equation modeling suggested that SES-PD of the EA–ENA disjuncts was mostly associated with mean divergence time. Moreover, SES-PD of the EA–ENA disjuncts was positively correlated with temperature-related climatic factors, although negatively correlated with mean diversification rate and community structure. By applying approaches from phylogenetics and community ecology, our work sheds light on historical patterns of the EA−ENA disjunction and paves the way for further research. Highlights • The pattern of phylogenetic diversity (PD) of eastern Asia (EA) and eastern North America (ENA) disjuncts remains unknown. • Despite a lower species number, the disjuncts in ENA possess a higher standardized effect size of PD (SES-PD) than in EA. • SES-PD of the EA−ENA disjuncts tends to decrease with increasing latitude and is most associated with divergence time.
