Title: The Role of Optometry in the Delivery of Eye Care via Telehealth: A Systematic Literature Review
Authors: Jessica Massie, Sandra S. Block, Priya Morjaria
Year: 2022
Venue: Telemedicine Journal and e-Health
DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2021.0537
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805855

Abstract:
Objective: Optometrists are increasingly adopting teleoptometry as an approach to delivering eye care. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has created further opportunities for optometrists to utilize innovation in telehealth to deliver eye care to individuals who experience access barriers. A systematic literature review is presented detailing the evidence to support the use of teleoptometry. Methods: Databases of MEDLINE, Global Health, and Web of Science were searched, and articles were included if they reported any involvement of optometrists in the delivery of telehealth. Findings were reported according to the mode of telehealth used to deliver eye care, telehealth collaboration type, and the format and geographical areas where eye care via telehealth is being delivered. Results: Twenty-seven relevant studies were identified. Only 11 studies included the role of optometrists as a member of the telehealth team where the scope of practice extended beyond creating and receiving referrals, collecting clinical data at in-person services, and continuing in-person care following consultation with an ophthalmologist. Both synchronous and asynchronous telehealth services were commonly utilized. Optometrists were most commonly involved in ophthalmology-led telehealth collaborations ( n = 19). Eight studies reported optometrists independently delivering primary eye care via telehealth, and commonly included videoconferencing. Conclusion: The application of teleoptometry to deliver eye care is rapidly emerging, and appears to be a viable adjunct to the delivery of in-person optometry services. The review highlighted the scarcity of evidence surrounding the clinical benefits, safety, and outcomes of teleoptometry. Further research is required in this area.
