Title: Electroencephalographic evaluation under standing sedation using sublingual detomidine hydrochloride in Egyptian Arabian foals for investigation of epilepsy
Authors: Tatiana Vinardell, Sami Elestwani, Camilla Jamieson, Ejaz Karim, Matthew Robin, Sarah Glynn, Ruba Benini, Monica Aleman
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16695
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229339

Abstract:
Abstract Background A standardized protocol for electroencephalography (EEG) under standing sedation for the investigation of epilepsy in foals is needed. Hypothesis/Objectives To evaluate a modified standardized EEG protocol under standing sedation using sublingual detomidine hydrochloride in Egyptian Arabian foals. Animals Nineteen foals (controls, 9; juvenile idiopathic epilepsy [JIE], 10). Methods Descriptive clinical study. Foals were classified as controls or epileptic based on history or witnessed seizures and neurological examination. Foals were sedated using sublingual detomidine hydrochloride at a dosage of 0.08 mg/kg to avoid stress associated with injectable sedation. Once foals appeared sedated with their heads low to the ground and with wide base stance (30 minutes), topical lidocaine hydrochloride was applied at the determined locations of EEG electrodes. Fifteen minutes were allowed for absorption and electrodes were placed, protected, and EEG recording performed. Results Level of sedation was considered excellent with no need of redosing. The EEG recording lasted from 27 to 51 minutes and provided interpretable data. Epileptic discharges (ED) were noted predominantly in the central‐parietal region in 9 of 10 epileptic foals. Photic stimulation triggered ED in 7 of 10 epileptic foals and in none of the controls. Foals were not oversedated and recovered uneventfully. Conclusions and Clinical Importance Sublingual detomidine hydrochloride is a safe, painless, simple, and effective method of sedation for EEG recording in foals. Sublingual sedation allowed the investigation of cerebral electrical activity during states of sleep and arousal, and during photic stimulation for the investigation of epilepsy in foals.
