Title: Knowledge and practices of home caregivers on neonatal danger signs pre-admission to tamale teaching hospital, Ghana: an explorative descriptive study
Authors: Joyce Fatima Kanton, Alberta P. Gyepi-Garbrah, Olivia Nyarko Mensah, Doris Richardson, Dzigbordi Kpikpitse, Hannah Acquah, Stephanie Ajinkpang, Deborah Azalekor, Mary Ani Amponsah, Alhassan Abdul-Mumin
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Pediatrics
DOI: 10.1186/s12887-023-03879-5
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061847

Abstract:
Introduction Neonatal illnesses can prove to be fatal if not identified early and treated. This suggests that death occasioned as result of neonatal illness could be prevented. However, it has been observed that most mothers report to the hospital late with their newborns in critical state, making it difficult for professionals to salvage the problem often than not. This study sought to explore the knowledge and practices of home caregivers on neonatal danger signs pre-admission to Tamale Teaching Hospital a tertiary hospital in northern Ghana. Methods An explorative descriptive qualitative design was used in this study. Purposive sampling technique was used to select fifteen caregivers of neonates on admission at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Tamale Teaching Hospital. Data was collected using semi-structured interview guide. As part of data collection, audio recordings were used to audio tape interviews. All data collected were transcribed verbatim and subsequently analyzed manually using thematic content analysis. Results Thematic analysis in the study demonstrated that caregivers had basic knowledge, describing neonatal illness with danger signs such as lethargy, convulsion, fever, fast breathing, poor feeding, vomiting and diarrhea. The study further found that the predominant practice to care seeking by caregivers was home/traditional herbal remedies. It also indicated that inexperience caring for neonates, severity of illness and non-availability of finances were factors that informed caregivers choice of treatment of neonatal illness. Conclusion The study concludes that inexperience caring for neonate, severity of illness and non-availability of finances were factors that informed caregivers choice of treatment. There is a pressing need for health workers to strengthen the education of caregivers/mothers on neonatal danger signs and the need for prompt care seeking from skilled health care providers prior to discharge from the hospital.
