Title: Additive genetic effects in interacting species jointly determine the outcome of caterpillar herbivory
Authors: Zachariah Gompert, Tara Saley, Casey Philbin, Su’ad A. Yoon, Eva Perry, Michelle E. Sneck, Joshua G. Harrison, C. Alex Buerkle, James A. Fordyce, Chris C. Nice, Craig D. Dodson, Sarah L. Lebeis, Lauren K. Lucas, Matthew L. Forister
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2206052119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9456756

Abstract:
Significance Studies of ecological interactions often ignore genetic variation, and studies of coevolution have rarely assayed the genetics of hosts and parasites at the same time. We show that genetic differences among Melissa blue caterpillars and alfalfa plants account for 17 to 49% of the variability in caterpillar growth and survival. The genetic contribution includes heritable variation in defensive compounds, including saponins. Our results suggest that the outcome of this plant–insect interaction is affected by many genes with mostly independent (additive) effects. Moreover, genetic differences among alfalfa plants have consistent effects on caterpillar growth in multiple butterfly populations and species. Our results thus advance understanding of the evolution of ecological interactions, including host–parasite interactions beyond herbivorous insects and plants. Plant–insect interactions are common and important in basic and applied biology. Trait and genetic variation can affect the outcome and evolution of these interactions, but the relative contributions of plant and insect genetic variation and how these interact remain unclear and are rarely subject to assessment in the same experimental context. Here, we address this knowledge gap using a recent host-range expansion onto alfalfa by the Melissa blue butterfly. Common garden rearing experiments and genomic data show that caterpillar performance depends on plant and insect genetic variation, with insect genetics contributing to performance earlier in development and plant genetics later. Our models of performance based on caterpillar genetics retained predictive power when applied to a second common garden. Much of the plant genetic effect could be explained by heritable variation in plant phytochemicals, especially saponins, peptides, and phosphatidyl cholines, providing a possible mechanistic understanding of variation in the species interaction. We find evidence of polygenic, mostly additive effects within and between species, with consistent effects of plant genotype on growth and development across multiple butterfly species. Our results inform theories of plant–insect coevolution and the evolution of diet breadth in herbivorous insects and other host-specific parasites.
