Title: Systematic analysis of in-source modifications of primary metabolites during flow-injection time-of-flight mass spectrometry
Authors: Niklas Farke, Thorben Schramm, Andreas Verhülsdonk, Johanna Rapp, Hannes Link
Year: 2023
Venue: Analytical Biochemistry
DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2023.115036
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9902335

Abstract:
Flow-injection mass spectrometry (FI-MS) enables metabolomics studies with a very high sample-throughput. However, FI-MS is prone to in-source modifications of analytes because samples are directly injected into the electrospray ionization source of a mass spectrometer without prior chromatographic separation. Here, we spiked authentic standards of 160 primary metabolites individually into an Escherichia coli metabolite extract and measured the thus derived 160 spike-in samples by FI-MS. Our results demonstrate that FI-MS can capture a wide range of chemically diverse analytes within 30 s measurement time. However, the data also revealed extensive in-source modifications. Across all 160 spike-in samples, we identified significant increases of 11,013 ion peaks in positive and negative mode combined. To explain these unknown m/z features, we connected them to the m/z feature of the (de-)protonated metabolite using information about mass differences and MS2 spectra. This resulted in networks that explained on average 49 % of all significant features. The networks showed that a single metabolite undergoes compound specific and often sequential in-source modifications like adductions, chemical reactions, and fragmentations. Our results show that FI-MS generates complex MS1 spectra, which leads to an overestimation of significant features, but neutral losses and MS2 spectra explain many of these features. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • FI-MS enables measurements of chemically diverse metabolites. • Extensive in-source modifications during electrospray ionization are detected by FI-MS. • A network approach explains 49% of all recorded in-source modifications.
