Title: Maresin-2 inhibits inflammatory and neuropathic trigeminal pain and reduces neuronal activation in the trigeminal ganglion
Authors: Raphael Vieira Lopes, Darciane Favero Baggio, Camila Rodrigues Ferraz, Mariana Marques Bertozzi, Telma Saraiva-Santos, Waldiceu Aparecido Verri Junior, Juliana Geremias Chichorro
Year: 2023
Venue: Current Research in Neurobiology
DOI: 10.1016/j.crneur.2023.100093
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313899

Abstract:
Pain is a common symptom associated with disorders involving the orofacial structures. Most acute orofacial painful conditions are easily recognized, but the pharmacological treatment may be limited by the adverse events of current available drugs and/or patients’ characteristics. In addition, chronic orofacial pain conditions represent clinical challenges both, in terms of diagnostic and treatment. There is growing evidence that specialized pro-resolution lipid mediators (SPMs) present potent analgesic effects, in addition to their well characterized role in the resolution of inflammation. Maresins (MaR-1 and MaR-2) were the last described members of this family, and MaR-2 analgesic action has not yet been reported. Herein the effect of MaR-2 in different orofacial pain models was investigated. MaR-2 (1 or 10 ng) was always delivered via medullary subarachnoid injection, which corresponds to the intrathecal treatment. A single injection of MaR-2 caused a significant reduction of phases I and II of the orofacial formalin test in rats. Repeated injections of MaR-2 prevented the development of facial heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in a model of post-operative pain in rats. In a model of trigeminal neuropathic pain (CCI-ION), repeated MaR-2 injections reversed facial heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in rats and mice. CCI-ION increased c-Fos positive neurons and CGRP + activated (nuclear pNFkB) neurons in the trigeminal ganglion (TG), which were restored to sham levels by MaR-2 repeated treatment. In conclusion, MaR-2 showed potent and long-lasting analgesic effects in inflammatory and neuropathic pain of orofacial origin and the inhibition of CGRP-positive neurons in the TG may account for MaR-2 action. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • MaR-2 reduces formalin-induced nociceptive behavior. • MaR-2 prevents heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in the postoperative pain model. • MaR-2 reverses heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in a neuropathic pain model. • MaR-2 reduces c-Fos activation in the trigeminal ganglion. • MaR-2 reduces the activation of CGRP+ neurons in the trigeminal ganglion.
