Title: Cangma Huadu granules, a new drug with great potential to treat coronavirus and influenza infections, exert its efficacy through anti-inflammatory and immune regulation
Authors: Xu-ran Cui, Yu-hong Guo, Qing-quan Liu
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Ethnopharmacology
DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114965
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8723765

Abstract:
Ethnopharmacological relevance Coronavirus and influenza virus infection seriously threaten human health. Cangma Huadu Granules (CMHD) is an in-hospital preparation composed of eight traditional Chinese medicines (TCM), which has been clinically used against COVID-19 in China and may be a promising candidate for the treatment of influenza. However, the role of its treatment urgently needs to be studied. Aim of the study : To evaluate the therapeutic effects of CMHD on pneumonia induced by coronavirus (HCoV-229E) and influenza A virus (H1N1/FM1) in mice and explore its mechanism of anti-infection. Materials and methods Mice were infected with HCoV-229E or H1N1/FM1 virus through the nasal cavity. CMHD (12.1, 6.05 and 3.03 g/kg/d) or the positive control drugs were administered intragastrically. The lung index and histopathological changes were used to evaluate the therapeutic effect of CMHD. The expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-4 in Serum and the proportion of CD4 + and CD8 + T lymphocytes in peripheral blood were detected to evaluate the anti-inflammatory and immune regulation effects of CMHD, respectively. Furthermore, the levels of p–NF–κBp65/ NF-κB p65, which was the key targets of the NF-κB pathway was analyzed. Results In HCoV-229E-induced pneumonia, the lung index was markedly reduced, and lung pathology was improved in mice that treated with CMHD (12.1, 6.05 g/kg/d). Meanwhile, the expression of TNF-α, IL-6 were obviously inhibited, but the expression of IL-4 was significantly increased in CMHD groups. Compared with the model group, CMHD could also markedly upregulate the level of CD4 + and CD8 + . Furthermore, CMHD has a markedly effect on inhibit the expression of p–NF–κB p65/NF-κB p65 in the lung. In H1N1-induced pneumonia, the lung index of mice in the CMHD (12.1 g/kg/d) treatment group was lower than that in the model group, and less inflammatory infiltration could be seen in the lung pathological. Moreover, CMHD could also obviously decrease the expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, but significantly increase the expression of IL-4. Except for that, CMHD could also markedly downregulate the level of CD4 + and upregulate the level of CD8 + compared with the model group. In addition, CMHD has a markedly effect on inhibit the expression of p–NF–κB p65/NF-κB p65 in the lung. Conclusion CMHD can significantly combats viral infections caused by HCoV-229E and H1N1, and the mechanism may be related to its multiple functions of anti-inflammatory, immunity regulating and inhibiting NF-κB signal transduction pathway. Graphical abstract Image 1
