Title: Informing care through lived experiences: perspectives of consumers and carers regarding dietetic care for eating disorders in Australia
Authors: Alana Heafala, Lana J. Mitchell, Lauren Ball
Year: 2022
Venue: Eating and Weight Disorders
DOI: 10.1007/s40519-022-01481-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803736

Abstract:
Purpose Dietitians are important members of eating disorder treatment teams. Previous research indicates little is known about the experience of receiving nutrition care for eating disorders. This study aimed to explore the perspectives of consumers and carers regarding the care received from primary care dietitians for eating disorders. Methods This study qualitatively explored the perceptions of individuals aged ≥ 15 years, who (i) identified as having an eating disorder or (ii) had cared for someone with an eating disorder, and had received care from a dietitian in a primary care setting. Thematic analysis was used to identify themes from interview transcripts. Synthesized member checking was utilized to assess whether the identified themes resonated with participants’ experiences. Twenty-four individuals (21 consumers, 3 carers) participated in a semi-structured interview. Seventeen participants completed member checking and all supported the identified themes and subthemes. Results Three themes emerged inductively from the data: (1) valuing a person-centered approach to dietetic care; (2) the therapeutic alliance is central to engaging in dietetic care; and (3) sharing the complex journey. Conclusions This study advances the understanding of the aspects of dietetic care perceived as most helpful by consumers and carers. These insights highlight the importance of person-centeredness, empathy, trust and collaboration within eating disorder care. The findings can be used by dietitians and health professionals to inform practice. Further research is needed to understand how dietitians can be supported to provide optimal nutrition care to people and families impacted by eating disorders. Level of evidence V. Qualitative study.
