Title: A randomized clinical trial of an eHealth intervention on anxiety in patients undergoing abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery
Authors: O Nilsson, M Stenman, A Letterstål, R Hultgren
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab151
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364917

Abstract:
Abstract Background The potential benefit of eHealth interventions in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is uncertain. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the effect of an eHealth intervention on anxiety in patients with AAA undergoing surgery. Methods A single-centre randomized clinical trial of patients with AAA scheduled for surgical repair was undertaken. The intervention group received an eHealth tool and psychosocial support besides standard care. The control group received standard care. The analysis of treatment effects was performed as intention-to-treat and per protocol analysis. The primary outcome measure was anxiety mean score (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale Anxiety (HADS)-A). Secondary outcomes measures were HADS Depression and short-form 12-item health survey mean scores. Results Some 120 participants were randomized. No effect on anxiety mean scores was found in the intention-to-treat analysis (−1.21 versus −0.54, P = 0.330). Among those randomized to the intervention, only 30 of 60 participants used the eHealth tool (application (app) users). The app users were younger and had a higher educational level. A decrease in anxiety mean scores was noted in those who used the app in the per protocol analysis (−2.00 versus −0.54, P = 0.028). The intervention group stated a lower physical-component health-related quality of life (HRQoL) (−4.32 versus −1.16, P = 0.042) but mental-component HRQoL and depressive symptoms were unchanged. Conclusions Delivery of an eHealth intervention in this RCT did not result in an improvement in anxiety scores in patients awaiting AAA surgery. Uptake of the eHealth tool was low, although it resulted in lower anxiety scores in those participants who actually used it. Clinical Trial Registration number NCT03157973 ( http://www.clinicaltrials.gov ) This systematic review of RCTs shows that continuous subcuticular open appendicectomy wound closure is not associated with an increased risk of developing postoperative wound infection. This method of wound closure is associated with a reduced risk of wound dehiscence and better cosmetic outcomes .
