Title: The Role of the Pharmacist in Combating the Opioid Crisis: An Update
Authors: Lucas Kosobuski, Carolyn O’Donnell, Cynthia P Koh-Knox Sharp, Nathaniel Chen, Laura Palombi
Year: 2022
Venue: Substance Abuse and Rehabilitation
DOI: 10.2147/SAR.S351096
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805704

Abstract:
Introduction The opioid overdose crisis has claimed hundreds of thousands of lives in the United States in the last decade, with overdose numbers continuing to climb. At the same time, the role of the pharmacist in combating the opioid crisis continues to evolve. Methods A literature search was conducted in Ovid MEDLINE that incorporated both MeSH terms and keywords to describe two concepts: the opioid epidemic and pharmacists/pharmacies. The search was limited to articles published after 2010 through the end of 2021 and returned 196 articles that were analyzed thematically. Results Thematic analysis revealed the following themes: prevention, interventions, public health role of the pharmacist, pharmacists in multiple roles, barriers, pharmacist and healthcare provider attitudes, educational initiatives for pharmacists and student pharmacists, and future research. Discussion While a great deal of progress has been made in the role of the pharmacist in supporting individuals with opioid use disorder (OUD) in the last two decades, pharmacists must seek to invest time and resources into practices with a strong evidence base to better mitigate the growing, devastating impact of the opioid crisis. Pharmacists must be willing to embrace new and non-traditional roles in patient care, service and research, and seek to advance evidence-based knowledge and practice. Conclusion Pharmacy practice has expanded greatly in the past decade with pharmacists taking on new and creative approaches to addressing the opioid crisis. Collaborative and interdisciplinary approaches to addressing the root causes of opioid misuse and opioid overdose are still desperately needed. These include attention to the critical roles of social determinants of health, stigma elimination, legislative advocacy for patients with OUD, and focused education for providers, pharmacists, and the community. Recognition and support of the value of collaboration to both improve public health and individual patient care, continued investments in pharmacy practice advancement in OUD treatment and harm reduction, and the creation of workflows and prescribing algorithms to assist in dosing medications to prevent withdrawal symptoms and achieve improved pain control are desperately needed.
