Title: Implantation of hydrogel-liposome nanoplatform inhibits glioblastoma relapse by inducing ferroptosis
Authors: Zixiao Wang, Zihao Liu, Shan Wang, Xin Bing, Xiaoshuai Ji, Dong He, Min Han, Yanbang Wei, Chanyue Wang, Qian Xia, Jianqiao Yang, Jiajia Gao, Xianyong Yin, Zhihai Wang, Zehan Shang, Jiacan Xu, Tao Xin, Qian Liu
Year: 2023
Venue: Asian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences
DOI: 10.1016/j.ajps.2023.100800
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232663

Abstract:
Glioblastoma is acknowledged as the most aggressive cerebral tumor in adults. However, the efficacy of current standard therapy is seriously undermined by drug resistance and suppressive immune microenvironment. Ferroptosis is a recently discovered form of iron-dependent cell death that may have excellent prospect as chemosensitizer. The utilization of ferropotosis inducer Erastin could significantly mediate chemotherapy sensitization of Temozolomide and exert anti-tumor effects in glioblastoma. In this study, a combination of hydrogel-liposome nanoplatform encapsulated with Temozolomide and ferroptosis inducer Erastin was constructed. The αvβ3 integrin-binding peptide cyclic RGD was utilized to modify codelivery system to achieve glioblastoma targeting strategy. As biocompatible drug reservoirs, cross-linked GelMA (gelatin methacrylamide) hydrogel and cRGD-coated liposome realized the sustained release of internal contents. In the modified intracranial tumor resection model, GelMA-liposome system achieved slow release of Temozolomide and Erastin in situ for more than 14 d. The results indicated that nanoplatform ( T + E @LPs-cRGD+GelMA) improved glioblastoma sensitivity to chemotherapeutic temozolomide and exerted satisfactory anti-tumor effects. It was demonstrated that the induction of ferroptosis could be utilized as a therapeutic strategy to overcome drug resistance. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was conducted to reveal the underlying mechanism that the nanoplatform (T+E@LPs-cRGD+GelMA) implicated in. It is suggested that GelMA-liposome system participated in the immune response and immunomodulation of glioblastoma via interferon/PD-L1 pathway. Collectively, this study proposed a potential combinatory therapeutic strategy for glioblastoma treatment. Graphical abstract Image, graphical abstract
