Title: Enrichment of oral-derived bacteria in inflamed colorectal tumors and distinct associations of Fusobacterium in the mesenchymal subtype
Authors: Brett S. Younginger, Oleg Mayba, Jens Reeder, Deepti R. Nagarkar, Zora Modrusan, Matthew L. Albert, Allyson L. Byrd
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100920
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975273

Abstract:
Summary While the association between colorectal cancer (CRC) features and Fusobacterium has been extensively studied, less is known of other intratumoral bacteria. Here, we leverage whole transcriptomes from 807 CRC samples to dually characterize tumor gene expression and 74 intratumoral bacteria. Seventeen of these species, including 4 Fusobacterium spp. , are classified as orally derived and are enriched among right-sided, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H), and BRAF-mutant tumors. Across consensus molecular subtypes (CMSs), integration of Fusobacterium animalis ( Fa ) presence and tumor expression reveals that Fa has the most significant associations in mesenchymal CMS4 tumors despite a lower prevalence than in immune CMS1. Within CMS4, the prevalence of Fa is uniquely associated with collagen- and immune-related pathways. Additional Fa pangenome analysis reveals that stress response genes and the adhesion FadA are commonly expressed intratumorally. Overall, this study identifies oral-derived bacteria as enriched in inflamed tumors, and the associations of bacteria and tumor expression are context and species specific. Graphical abstract Highlights • Oral bacteria are enriched among right-sided, MSI-H, and BRAF-mutant tumors • Mesenchymal tumors with Fusobacterium animalis have greater collagen and immune genes • Intratumorally, F. animalis expresses stress response genes and the adhesion FadA Younginger et al. dually characterize tumor gene expression and 74 bacteria across 807 CRC tumors. They show that oral bacteria are enriched in right-sided, microsatellite-unstable, and BRAF-mutant tumors and that Fusobacterium animalis is associated with increased expression of collagen- and immune-related genes in mesenchymal tumors.
