Title: Correlation Analysis of Attention and Intelligence of Preterm Infants at Preschool Age: A Premature Cohort Study
Authors: Wei-Chih Chin, Wei-Chi Wu, Jen-Fu Hsu, I. Tang, Tsung-Chieh Yao, Yu-Shu Huang
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20043357
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967095

Abstract:
Objective: Developmental delay in neurocognitive function has been reported in premature children. This cohort study prospectively followed preterm infants following birth, and herein we present the four-year longitudinal follow-up data of cognitive development at preschool age and analyze correlated factors. Methods: Term and preterm children received regular clinical evaluations and development assessments after birth, and at age 4 ± 1 years, they received the Wechsler-preschool and primary scale of intelligence, Fourth Edition (WPPSI-IV), excluding those with full-scale intelligence quotient < 70. A total of 150 participants received Conners Kiddie Continuous Performance Test (K-CPT), while 129 participants received ophthalmic evaluation. We adopted Chi-square test, ANOVA, and post hoc analysis to compare group differences. Correlations with K-CPT and WPPSI-IV were analyzed using Pearson’s correlation. Results: Group 1 consisted of 25 full-term children, group 2 had 94 preterm children with birth-weight of ≥ 1500 g, and group 3 had 159 preterm children with birth-weight of < 1500 g. Group 1 was the healthiest group and had the best performance in attention and intelligence, while group 3 had the worst physical condition and cognitive performance. The correlation analysis revealed that perinatal factors, including gestational age, birth weight, Apgar scores, and physical conditions, significantly correlated with WPPSI-IV and K-CPT variables. Gender significantly correlated with object assembly of WPSSI-IV and clinical index of K-CPT. Among vision-related variables, best corrected visual acuity correlated most with K-CPT, including clinical index, Omission, and hit reaction time standard error of K-CPT, as well as significantly correlated with information and bug search of WPPSI-IV. Conclusions: Preterm children at preschool age still had poorer cognitive performance than full-term children, especially those with birth BW less than 1500 g. Gender and vision are correlated with cognitive deficits. Continuous monitoring with comprehensive assessments is recommended.
