Title: Measures of Maximal Tactile Pressures during a Sustained Grasp Task Using a TactArray Device Have Satisfactory Reliability and Concurrent Validity in People with Stroke
Authors: Urvashy Gopaul, Derek Laver, Leeanne Carey, Thomas Matyas, Paulette van Vliet, Robin Callister
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23063291
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10059963

Abstract:
Sensor-based devices can record pressure or force over time during grasping and therefore offer a more comprehensive approach to quantifying grip strength during sustained contractions. The objectives of this study were to investigate the reliability and concurrent validity of measures of maximal tactile pressures and forces during a sustained grasp task using a TactArray device in people with stroke. Participants with stroke (n = 11) performed three trials of sustained maximal grasp over 8 s. Both hands were tested in within- and between-day sessions, with and without vision. Measures of maximal tactile pressures and forces were measured for the complete (8 s) grasp duration and plateau phase (5 s). Tactile measures are reported using the highest value among three trials, the mean of two trials, and the mean of three trials. Reliability was determined using changes in mean, coefficients of variation, and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). Pearson correlation coefficients were used to evaluate concurrent validity. This study found that measures of reliability assessed by changes in means were good, coefficients of variation were good to acceptable, and ICCs were very good for maximal tactile pressures using the average pressure of the mean of three trials over 8 s in the affected hand with and without vision for within-day sessions and without vision for between-day sessions. In the less affected hand, changes in mean were very good, coefficients of variations were acceptable, and ICCs were good to very good for maximal tactile pressures using the average pressure of the mean of three trials over 8 s and 5 s, respectively, in between-day sessions with and without vision. Maximal tactile pressures had moderate correlations with grip strength. The TactArray device demonstrates satisfactory reliability and concurrent validity for measures of maximal tactile pressures in people with stroke.
