Title: Consequences of COVID-19 Pandemic on Orthopedic Residents’ Clinical and Academic Performance, and the Subsequent Impact on Their Mental Status in Saudi Arabia
Authors: Hamza M Alrabai, Fahad I Askar, Abdulaziz Ali ALMohammed, Mutasim Hassan Alhasani, Essam Husain Alshahrani, Abdulaziz M AlSudairi
Year: 2023
Venue: Advances in Medical Education and Practice
DOI: 10.2147/AMEP.S402576
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066628

Abstract:
Introduction Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the orthopedic residency programs was substantial worldwide. Orthopedic residency programs eventually survived such a hardship with implementation of certain measures. The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the orthopedic trainees was variable relative to the country in which orthopedic residency program is based. This study aimed to assess the experience of the orthopedic residents during COVID-19 pandemic in Saudi Arabia and consequences on mental health, academic performance, and clinical training. Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted from June 2021 to August 2021. An online survey was sent to the orthopedic residents in Saudi Arabia. The questionnaire was arranged into four sections pertaining to demographic data, academic activity, mental health, and clinical activity. Results One-hundred forty-four orthopedic residents participated with mean age of 28.7 ± 5.67 years. Males were 108 (75%) and females were 36 (25%). Fifty-four (37.5%) residents worked in COVID-19 isolation unit. One-hundred twenty residents (83.3%) treated COVID-19 patients. Thirty residents (20.8%) had positive COVID-19 tests. Eighty-four (58.3%) residents were quarantined. Overall online education was difficult (41%). Half of the participants faced online difficulties in technicality, maintaining attention, and interaction with audience and examiners. Prospective research conduction was difficult (71.4%). More than 50% of residents experienced difficulties with isolation, quarantine, socialization, and anxiety of disease transmission. Physical examination was difficult for 50% of trainees. No shortage of PPE supply was reported. Getting hands-on surgical training was very difficult (47.8%). Conclusion COVID-19 pandemic had an adverse impact on Saudi orthopedic residents in terms of academic performance, mental wellbeing, and clinical training. After all, adequate level of orthopedic training quality was maintained. In crises, collaborative efforts are needed to minimize undesirable consequences on the trainees’ competency level. Residency program decision makers should utilize all available strategies to optimize the training environment to achieve the required competency level.
