Title: A 3D Faraday Shield for Interdigitated Dielectrometry Sensors and Its Effect on Capacitance
Authors: Alex Risos, Nicholas Long, Arvid Hunze, Gideon Gouws
Year: 2016
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s17010077
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5298650

Abstract:
Interdigitated dielectrometry sensors (IDS) are capacitive sensors investigated to precisely measure the relative permittivity ( ϵ r ) of insulating liquids. Such liquids used in the power industry exhibit a change in ϵ r as they degrade. The IDS ability to measure ϵ r in-situ can potentially reduce maintenance, increase grid stability and improve safety. Noise from external electric field sources is a prominent issue with IDS. This paper investigates the novelty of applying a Faraday cage onto an IDS as a 3D shield to reduce this noise. This alters the spatially distributed electric field of an IDS affecting its sensing properties. Therefore, dependency of the sensor’s signal with the distance to a shield above the IDS electrodes has been investigated experimentally and theoretically via a Green’s function calculation and FEM. A criteria of the shield’s distance s = s 0 has been defined as the distance which gives a capacitance for the IDS equal to 1 − e − 2 = 86.5 % of its unshielded value. Theoretical calculations using a simplified geometry gave a constant value for s 0 / λ = 1.65, where λ is the IDS wavelength. In the experiment, values for s 0 were found to be lower than predicted as from theory and the ratio s 0 / λ variable. This was analyzed in detail and it was found to be resulting from the specific spatial structure of the IDS. A subsequent measurement of a common insulating liquid with a nearby noise source demonstrates a considerable reduction in the standard deviation of the relative permittivity from σ unshielded = ± 9.5% to σ shielded = ± 0.6%. The presented findings enhance our understanding of IDS in respect to the influence of a Faraday shield on the capacitance, parasitic capacitances of the IDS and external noise impact on the measurement of ϵ r .
