Title: Cspg4 high microglia contribute to microgliosis during neurodegeneration
Authors: Ya-jing Liu, Yu Ding, Yan-qing Yin, Hui Xiao, Gang Hu, Jia-wei Zhou
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2210643120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974490

Abstract:
Significance Activated microglia play a central role in the onset and progression of neurodegenerative disorders. They phagocytose cell debris or misfolded protein and contribute to neuroinflammation. However, the origin of activated microglia during neurodegeneration remains incompletely understood. Understanding their origin is essential for controlling deregulated microglial activity. Our single-cell transcriptomic analysis reveals that Cspg4 high microglia represent a subset of microglia that has a distinct transcriptome from other known microglia subtypes in mice and humans. These cells undergo steady-state mitosis continuously and throughout life in the brain at rather low levels. Cspg4 high microglia are expanded contributing to microgliosis during neurodegeneration. Thus, the present study identifies Cspg4 high microglia as a new source of activated microglia in the diseased brain. Microglia play a critical role in the pathogenic process of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson’s disease (PD) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Upon pathological stimulation, microglia are converted from a surveillant to an overactivated phenotype. However, the molecular characters of proliferating microglia and their contributions to the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration remain unclear. Here, we identify chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 ( Cspg4, also known as neural/glial antigen 2)-expressing microglia as a specific subset of microglia with proliferative capability during neurodegeneration. We found that the percentage of Cspg4 + microglia was increased in mouse models of PD. The transcriptomic analysis of Cspg4 + microglia revealed that the subcluster Cspg4 high microglia displayed a unique transcriptomic signature, which was characterized by the enrichment of orthologous cell cycle genes and a lower expression of genes responsible for neuroinflammation and phagocytosis. Their gene signatures were also distinct from that of known disease-associated microglia. The proliferation of quiescent Cspg4 high microglia was evoked by pathological α-synuclein. Following the transplantation in the adult brain with the depletion of endogenous microglia, Cspg4 high microglia grafts showed higher survival rates than their Cspg4 − counterparts. Consistently, Cspg4 high microglia were detected in the brain of AD patients and displayed the expansion in animal models of AD. These findings suggest that Cspg4 high microglia are one of the origins of microgliosis during neurodegeneration and may open up a avenue for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
