Title: Management of Polydrug-Resistant Tuberculosis
Authors: Mediha Gonenc Ortakoylu, Isil Kibar Akilli, Lutfiye Kilic, Belma Akbaba Bagci, Esma Seda Akalin, Arzu Deniz Aksan, Sezer Toprak, Mehdi Mirsaeidi
Year: 2023
Venue: Medicina
DOI: 10.3390/medicina59020246
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967441

Abstract:
Background and Objectives : There is a lack of information regarding the effective duration of treatment necessary to prevent the development of acquired resistance when fluoroquinolones (FQ), and/or pyrazinamide (Z) resistance has occurred in patients with polydrug-resistant tuberculosis and isoniazid resistance. The management of these kinds of patients should be carried out in experienced centers according to drug susceptibility test results, clinical status of the patient and the extensity of the disease. Materials and Methods : We evaluated treatment regimens, treatment outcomes, and drug adverse effects in seven patients with polydrug-resistant tuberculosis, including those with Z and/or FQ resistance in a retrospective analysis Results : Regarding the patients with polydrug-resistant tuberculosis in addition to isoniazid (H) resistance, three had Z, two had FQ, and the remaining two had both Z and FQ resistance. In the intensive phase of the treatment, the patients were given at least four drugs according to drug susceptibility tests, and at least three drugs in the continuation phase. The duration of treatment was 9–12 months. Two of the patients were foreign nationals, and could not be followed up with due to returning to their home countries. Regarding the remaining five patients, three of them were terminated as they completed treatment, and two as cured. No recurrence was observed in the first year of the treatment. The most common, and serious drug side effect was seen for amikacin. Conclusions : In patients with polydrug-resistant TB, if Z and/or FQ resistance is detected in addition to H resistance, the treatment of these patients should be conducted on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the patient’s resistance pattern, clinical condition, and disease prognosis. Close monitoring of the side effects will increase the success rate of the treatment.
