Title: Association between physical health and physical activity behaviors for children aged 3–6 years in kindergarten: A cross-sectional study from China
Authors: Xin Xiong, Weinan Zhang, Yaqi An, Yunchen Meng, Haifeng Li, Zhiping Zhen, Jian Sun
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0278341
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9754297

Abstract:
Purpose To explore the association between the physical health (PH) and physical activity behavior (PAB) of children aged 3 to 6 years, and to provide a basis for the scientific planning of children’s physical activity behavior in kindergarten. Methods A total of 18041 children in China aged 3 to 6 years were selected as the research subject. The PH monitoring indicators were measured according to "The National Physical Fitness Measurement Standards Manual" (Preschool Children Version) (NPFMSM), and PAB was reported by teachers. The chi-square test was used to test for differences in PH and PAB across groups, the percentile method was used to rank PAB, correlation analysis was used to analyze the association between components of PH and PAB, and multiple linear regression was used to determine the independent association between PAB and PH. Results Participants in this study exhibited poor PH status, and the detection rates of failure were 16.4% for boys and 16.8% for girls, and showed a decreasing trend with increasing age. The grade difference and sex difference in PH components were statistically significant (P<0.01). PAB changes to static activities with increasing age, mainly to static indoor physical activities (SIPAs). The regression effects of the total duration of physical activity (TDPA) and dynamic physical activity (DPA) on PH score and physical fitness (PF) score were significant (P < 0.01) but not statistically significant with static physical activity (SPA) (P>0.05). Dynamic outdoor physical activity (DOPA) is the core factor affecting children’s PH, and is significantly positively correlated with the components of PH. Conclusion PAB in kindergarten can improve children’s PH, and reasonable planning of PAB in kindergarten has a targeted effect on PH promotion.
