Title: Convergent behavior of extended stalk regions from staphylococcal surface proteins with widely divergent sequence patterns
Authors: Alexander E. Yarawsky, Andrea L. Ori, Lance R. English, Steven T. Whitten, Andrew B. Herr
Year: 2023
Venue: Protein Science : A Publication of the Protein Society
DOI: 10.1002/pro.4707
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10367597

Abstract:
Abstract Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus are highly problematic bacteria in hospital settings. A major challenge is their ability to form biofilms on abiotic or biotic surfaces. Biofilms are well‐organized, multicellular bacterial aggregates that resist antibiotic treatment and often lead to recurrent infections. Bacterial cell wall‐anchored (CWA) proteins are important players in biofilm formation and infection. Many have putative stalk‐like regions or regions of low complexity near the cell wall‐anchoring motif. Recent work demonstrated the strong propensity of the stalk region of S. epidermidis accumulation‐associated protein (Aap) to remain highly extended under solution conditions that typically induce compaction. This behavior is consistent with the expected function of a stalk‐like region that is covalently attached to the cell wall peptidoglycan and projects the adhesive domains of Aap away from the cell surface. In this study, we evaluate whether the ability to resist compaction is a common theme among stalk regions from various staphylococcal CWA proteins. Circular dichroism spectroscopy was used to examine secondary structure changes as a function of temperature and cosolvents along with sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation, size‐exclusion chromatography, and SAXS to characterize structural characteristics in solution. All stalk regions tested are intrinsically disordered, lacking secondary structure beyond random coil and polyproline type II helix, and they all sample highly extended conformations. Remarkably, the Ser‐Asp dipeptide repeat region of SdrC exhibited nearly identical behavior in solution when compared to the Aap Pro/Gly‐rich region, despite highly divergent sequence patterns, indicating conservation of function by various distinct staphylococcal CWA protein stalk regions.
