Title: Optogenetic manipulation of cardiac electrical dynamics using sub-threshold illumination: dissecting the role of cardiac alternans in terminating rapid rhythms
Authors: V. Biasci, L. Santini, G. A. Marchal, S. Hussaini, C. Ferrantini, R. Coppini, L. M. Loew, S. Luther, M. Campione, C. Poggesi, F. S. Pavone, E. Cerbai, G. Bub, L. Sacconi
Year: 2022
Venue: Basic Research in Cardiology
DOI: 10.1007/s00395-022-00933-8
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9054908

Abstract:
Cardiac action potential (AP) shape and propagation are regulated by several key dynamic factors such as ion channel recovery and intracellular Ca 2+ cycling. Experimental methods for manipulating AP electrical dynamics commonly use ion channel inhibitors that lack spatial and temporal specificity. In this work, we propose an approach based on optogenetics to manipulate cardiac electrical activity employing a light-modulated depolarizing current with intensities that are too low to elicit APs (sub-threshold illumination), but are sufficient to fine-tune AP electrical dynamics. We investigated the effects of sub-threshold illumination in isolated cardiomyocytes and whole hearts by using transgenic mice constitutively expressing a light-gated ion channel (channelrhodopsin-2, ChR2). We find that ChR2-mediated depolarizing current prolongs APs and reduces conduction velocity (CV) in a space-selective and reversible manner. Sub-threshold manipulation also affects the dynamics of cardiac electrical activity, increasing the magnitude of cardiac alternans. We used an optical system that uses real-time feedback control to generate re-entrant circuits with user-defined cycle lengths to explore the role of cardiac alternans in spontaneous termination of ventricular tachycardias (VTs). We demonstrate that VT stability significantly decreases during sub-threshold illumination primarily due to an increase in the amplitude of electrical oscillations, which implies that cardiac alternans may be beneficial in the context of self-termination of VT. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00395-022-00933-8
