Title: Electron doping of a double-perovskite flat-band system
Authors: Lun Jin, Nicodemos Varnava, Danrui Ni, Xin Gui, Xianghan Xu, Yuanfeng Xu, B. Andrei Bernevig, Robert J. Cava
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2218997120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974513

Abstract:
Significance Flat-band electronic materials have been a keen research topic in theoretical materials physics due to their potential for hosting strongly correlated electrons and hence exotic physical phenomena. This study explores the electronic flat band (i.e., an electronic band that has minimal variation in energy over a significant portion of the Brillouin zone) located just above the Fermi level in Sr 2 FeSbO 6 . The origin of the flat band is theoretically determined, distinguishing it from ordinary bands, and to experimentally place the Fermi energy in that flat band, electron-doped samples are synthesized and analyzed, yielding some features that cannot be adequately described by classic physics in full. Our work shows that this doped double perovskite is an unusual electronic system worthy of further study. Electronic structure calculations indicate that the Sr 2 FeSbO 6 double perovskite has a flat-band set just above the Fermi level that includes contributions from ordinary subbands with weak kinetic electron hopping plus a flat subband that can be attributed to the lattice geometry and orbital interference. To place the Fermi energy in that flat band, electron-doped samples with formulas Sr 2- x La x FeSbO 6 (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3) were synthesized, and their magnetism and ambient temperature crystal structures were determined by high-resolution synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction. All materials appear to display an antiferromagnetic-like maximum in the magnetic susceptibility, but the dominant spin coupling evolves from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic on electron doping. Which of the three subbands or combinations is responsible for the behavior has not been determined.
