Title: A Pan-European Review of Good Practices in Early Intervention Safeguarding Practice with Children, Young People and Families: Evidence Gathering to Inform a Multi-disciplinary Training Programme (the ERICA Project) in Preventing Child Abuse and Neglect in Seven European Countries
Authors: J. V. Appleton, S. Bekaert, J. Hucker, G. Zlatkute, E. Paavilainen, H. Schecke, M. Specka, N. Scherbaum, E. Jouet, L. Zabłocka-Żytka, M. Woźniak-Prus, J. Cz. Czabała, S. Kluczyńska, B. Bachi, F. Bartoli, G. Carrà, R. M. Cioni, C. Crocamo, H. E. Rantanen, M. Kaunonen, I. Nieminen, L. Roe, K. Keenan, G. Viganò, A. Baldacchino
Year: 2022
Venue: International Journal on Child Maltreatment
DOI: 10.1007/s42448-022-00132-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9665033

Abstract:
Child maltreatment has detrimental social and health effects for individuals, families and communities. The ERICA project is a pan-European training programme that equips non-specialist threshold practitioners with knowledge and skills to prevent and detect child maltreatment. This paper describes and presents the findings of a rapid review of good practice examples across seven participating countries including local services, programmes and risk assessment tools used in the detection and prevention of child maltreatment in the family. Learning was applied to the development of the generic training project. A template for mapping the good practice examples was collaboratively developed by the seven participating partner countries. A descriptive data analysis was undertaken organised by an a priori analysis framework. Examples were organised into three areas: programmes tackling child abuse and neglect, local practices in assessment and referral, risk assessment tools. Key findings were identified using a thematic approach. Seventy-two good practice examples were identified and categorised according to area, subcategory and number. A typology was developed as follows: legislative frameworks, child health promotion programmes, national guidance on child maltreatment, local practice guidance, risk assessment tools, local support services, early intervention programmes, telephone or internet-based support services, COVID-19 related good practices. Improved integration of guidance into practice and professional training in child development were highlighted as overarching needs. The impact of COVID-19 on safeguarding issues was apparent. The ERICA training programme formally responded to the learning identified in this international good practice review.
