Title: Nonproductive Hepatitis B Virus Covalently Closed Circular DNA Generates HBx-Related Transcripts from the HBx/Enhancer I Region and Acquires Reactivation by Superinfection in Single Cells
Authors: Bo Peng, Zhiyi Jing, Zhongmin Zhou, Yinyan Sun, Guilan Guo, Zexi Tan, Yan Diao, Qiyan Yao, Yi Ping, Xuelei Li, Tengfei Ren, Bin Li, Wenhui Li
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Virology
DOI: 10.1128/jvi.01717-22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9888189

Abstract:
ABSTRACT Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a public health problem worldwide. Persistent HBV infection relies on active transcription of the covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) in hepatocytes, which is less understood at the single-cell level. In this study, we isolated primary human hepatocytes from liver-humanized FRG mice infected with HBV and examined cccDNA transcripts in single cells based on 5′ end sequencing. Our 5′ transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis unambiguously assigns different viral transcripts with overlapping 3′ sequences and quantitatively measures viral transcripts for structural genes (3.5 kb, 2.4 kb, and 2.1 kb) and the nonstructural X gene (0.7 kb and related) in single cells. We found that an infected cell either can generate all viral transcripts, signifying active transcription, or presents only transcripts from the X gene and its associated enhancer I domain and no structural gene transcripts. Results from cell infection assays with recombinant HBV show that nonproductive transcription of cccDNA can be activated by incoming virus through superinfection. Moreover, upon HBV infection, cccDNA apparently can be transcribed in the absence of HBx and produces HBx, needed for productive transcription of other viral genes. These results shed new light on cccDNA transcription at the single-cell level and provide insights useful for improving the treatment strategy against chronic HBV infection. IMPORTANCE Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection can be effectively suppressed but rarely cured by available drugs. Chronic HBV infection is based on persistence of covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) and continuous infection and reinfection with HBV in the liver. Understanding transcriptional regulation of cccDNA will help to achieve permanent transcriptional silencing, i.e., functional cure of HBV. In our study, we found that an infected cell either can generate all viral transcripts, signifying active transcription, or presents only transcripts from the X gene and its associated enhancer I domain and no structural gene transcripts. The nonproductive transcription of cccDNA can be activated by incoming virus through superinfection. Upon an infection, cccDNA apparently can be transcribed in the absence of HBx to produce HBx, necessary for subsequent transcription of other HBV genes. Our studies shed new light on the mechanism of HBV infection and may have implications for a functional cure regimen for HBV.
