Title: Effect of multiple reuse of commonly used implant analogs on the changes in the distance between internal threads: An in vitro study
Authors: Ravi Shankar Yalavarthy, Jagadeesh Naidu Alla, Srinivas Kalluri, Shiva Shankar Mahadevan, Satyendra Kumar, Sunitha Ronanki
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_335_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8884351

Abstract:
Aim: To assess the effect of multiple reuse of implant analogs of three different materials (SS, Ti, Al) on the changes in the distance between internal threads of implant analog by using two die materials at different time intervals (0, 3 rd , 6 th , 9 th , and 12 th ). Settings and Design: An in vitro study. Materials and Methodology: Three commonly used implant analog materials (stainless steel, titanium, and aluminum) and two Type– IV die stone materials (Kalrock and Zhermack Elite) were used to make the samples. A total of sixty implant analogs (20 each), sixty corresponding abutments (20 each) and 720 screws (240 each) were taken, which includes stainless steel, titanium, and aluminum manufactured by Adin, Genesis, and Equinox/Myriad plus, respectively. In addition, silicone (light body consistency) was used to make an impression for the internal thread of implant analogs. The obtained samples were tested for changes in the internal threads of implant analogs while reusing the implant analogs at the interval of times (0, 3 rd , 6 th , 9 th , and 12 th ) using a stereomicroscope at ×50. Here, the measured values at “0” interval were considered the control group. Statistical Analysis Used: The values obtained were statistically analyzed using One way ANOVA, independent t test, and dependent t test for multiple comparisons. Results: Based on the results obtained, the overall comparison of the mean distance between threads 1–2, 3–4, and 5–6 on the replica of internal threads of the stainless steel, titanium, and aluminum implant analog materials at 1–2 has more decrease in distance from 0 to 12 th intervals, at 3–4 has less amount of decrease in distance than thread distance at 1–2 from 0 to 12 th intervals, and at 5–6 has very less decrease in distance than thread distance at 1–2 and 3–4 from 0 to 12 th intervals. On order the mean distance reduction between threads is more at 1–2, followed to that less reduction at 3–4 and very less reduction at 5–6. This infers that the amount of increase in the distance between the internal threads of implant analog at 1–2 has more followed by 3–4 and 5–6, respectively. Conclusion: From the study, the following inferences are drawn: That the aluminum implant analog internal threads have more amount of increase in the distance between threads followed by stainless steel and titanium. Hence, among the three materials, titanium implant analogs were most efficient for reuse.
