Title: Efficacy and Safety of Escitalopram, Desvenlafaxine, and Vortioxetine in the Acute Treatment of Anxious Depression: A Randomized Rater-blinded 6-week Clinical Trial
Authors: Cheolmin Shin, Sang Won Jeon, Seung-Hoon Lee, Chi-Un Pae, Narei Hong, Hyun Kook Lim, Ashwin A. Patkar, Prakash S. Masand, Hyonggin An, Changsu Han
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience
DOI: 10.9758/cpn.2023.21.1.135
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889909

Abstract:
Objective Anxious depression is associated with greater chronicity, higher severity of symptoms, more severe functional impairment, and poor response to drug treatment. However, evidence for first-choice antidepressants in patients with anxious depression is limited. This study aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of escitalopram, desvenlafaxine, and vortioxetine in the acute treatment of anxious depression. Methods Patients (n = 124) with major depressive disorder and high levels of anxiety were randomly assigned to an escitalopram treatment group (n = 42), desvenlafaxine treatment group (n = 40), or vortioxetine treatment group (n = 42) in a 6-week randomized rater-blinded head-to-head comparative trial. Changes in overall depressive and anxiety symptoms were assessed using the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) and Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA), respectively. Results Patients demonstrated similar baseline-to-endpoint improvement in scores and similar response and remission rates for HAMD and HAMA. Analysis of the individual HAMD items revealed that desvenlafaxine significantly reduced anxiety somatic scores ( p = 0.013) and hypochondriasis scores ( p = 0.014) compared to escitalopram. With respect to the individual HAMA items, desvenlafaxine treatment showed significantly lower scores for respiratory symptoms ( p = 0.013) than escitalopram treatment and cardiovascular symptoms ( p = 0.005) than vortioxetine treatment. The treatments were well tolerated, with no significant differences. Conclusion Our results indicated no significant differences in the efficacy and tolerability of escitalopram, desvenlafaxine, and vortioxetine in this subtype of patients with anxious depression during the acute phase of treatment.
