Title: Psychometric Properties of the Korean Version of Functioning Assessment Short Test in Bipolar Disorder
Authors: Hangoeunbi Kang, Bo-Hyun Yoon, Won-Myong Bahk, Young Sup Woo, Won Kim, Jonghun Lee, InKi Sohn, Sung-Yong Park, Duk-In Jon, Myung Hun Jung, Moon-Doo Kim, Young-Eun Jung, Hyung-Mo Sung, Young-Min Park, Jung Goo Lee, Sang-Yeol Lee, Seung-Ho Jang, Eun-Sung Lim, In Hee Shim, Kwanghun Lee, Sae-Heon Jang
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience
DOI: 10.9758/cpn.2023.21.1.188
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889907

Abstract:
Objective The Functioning Assessment Short Test (FAST) is a relatively specific test for bipolar disorders designed to assess the main functioning problems experienced by patients. This brief instrument includes 24 items assessing impairment or disability in 6 domains of functioning autonomy, occupational functioning, cognitive functioning, financial issues, interpersonal relationships, and leisure time. It has already been translated into standardized versions in several languages. The aim of this study is to measure the validity and reliability of the Korean version of FAST (K-FAST). Methods A total of 209 bipolar disorder patients were recruited from 14 centers in Korea. K-FAST, Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Bipolar Depression Rating Scale (BDRS), Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) and the World Health Organization Quality of Life Assessment Instrument Brief Form (WHOQOL-BREF) were administered, and psychometric analysis of the K-FAST was conducted. Results The internal consistency (Cronbach’s alpha) of the K-FAST was 0.95. Test-retest reliability analysis showed a strong correlation between the two measures assessed at a 1-week interval (ICC = 0.97; p < 0.001). The K-FAST exhibited significant correlations with GAF (r = −0.771), WHOQOL-BREF (r = −0.326), YMRS (r = 0.509) and BDRS (r = 0.598). A strong negative correlation with GAF pointed to a reasonable degree of concurrent validity. Although the exploratory factor analysis showed four factors, the confirmatory factor analysis of questionnaires had a good fit for a six factors model (CFI = 0.925; TLI = 0.912; RMSEA = 0.078). Conclusion The K-FAST has good psychometric properties, good internal consistency, and can be applicable and acceptable to the Korean context.
