Title: Can we share models if sharing data is not an option?
Authors: Zexi Li, Feng Mao, Chao Wu
Year: 2022
Venue: Patterns
DOI: 10.1016/j.patter.2022.100603
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9676535

Abstract:
Summary In the big data era, vast volumes of data are generated daily as the foundation of data-driven scientific discovery. Thanks to the recent open data movement, much of these data are being made available to the public, significantly advancing scientific research and accelerating socio-technical development. However, not all data are suitable for opening or sharing because of concerns over privacy, ownership, trust, and incentive. Therefore, data sharing remains a challenge for specific data types and holders, making a bottleneck for further unleashing the potential of these “closed data.” To address this challenge, in this perspective, we conceptualize the current practices and technologies in data collaboration in a data-sharing-free manner and propose a concept of the model-sharing strategy for using closed data without sharing them. Supported by emerging advances in artificial intelligence, this strategy will unleash the large potential in closed data. Moreover, we show the advantages of the model-sharing strategy and explain how it will lead to a new paradigm of big data governance and collaboration. The bigger picture Data are the fuel for data-driven scientific discovery in the modern world. However, not all data are suitable or easily shared because of privacy, ownership, trust, and incentive issues. This significant amount of “closed data” is a hidden gold mine in the big data era. In this perspective article, we propose the notion of the model-sharing strategy to conceptualize the recent practical attempts and technological advances in distributed modeling and data collaboration. The model-sharing strategy leverages emerging technologies, especially artificial intelligence, to safely use closed data by sharing models instead of data between data owners and model users. Future applications of this strategy will make it possible to create more added value from the conventionally unusable data and trigger a transformation for better data collaboration and governance. Not all data in the big data era are suitable for opening or sharing because of concerns such as privacy, ownership, trust, and incentive. Therefore, we propose the model-sharing strategy to conceptualize the current practices and technological advances that use closed data without sharing them. The concept of the model-sharing strategy will unleash the significant potential in closed data, trigger a transformation in data governance, and guide future development in data technologies.
