Title: Does minimally invasive percutaneous transilial internal fixator became an effective option for sacral fractures? A prospective study with novel implantation technique
Authors: Elsayed Kassem, Sherif A. Khaled, Mahmoud Abdel Karim, Ahmed Goda El-Hamalawy, Mahmoud Fahmy
Year: 2023
Venue: European Journal of Trauma and Emergency Surgery
DOI: 10.1007/s00068-022-02212-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229678

Abstract:
Aim To assess radiological and functional outcomes of transilial internal fixator (TIFI) for treatment of sacral complete transforaminal fractures with a novel implantation technique that decrease wound irritation problems in addition to facilitating easy application of reduction methods beside showing the best entry points, screw trajectories and angles. Methods A Prospective case series from 2019 to 2021 was conducted at university hospital including 72 patients with Denis type 2 sacral fractures. The operative and fluoroscopy time, reduction, implantation techniques, postoperative radiological and functional data were collected and evaluated with minimum follow-up of 12 months. Results The mean initial fracture displacement was 4.42 mm while mean postoperative maximum residual fracture displacement was 2.8 mm, Radiological outcome assessed using Matta’s grading at the final follow-up visit with 63 cases scored as Excellent,7 cases as Good, 2 cases as fair. Functional outcome using Majeed scoring shows 64 cases of Excellent grading and 8 cases were Good. Short operative and fluoroscopy time, easy reduction techniques, few skin problems were recorded. Conclusion TIFI through a minimally invasive technique represents a valid method for dealing with transforaminal sacral fractures. TIFI provides a rigid fixation for posterior ring injuries with few risks regarding iatrogenic nerve injury, avoiding different variations of upper sacral osseous anatomy or sacral dysmorphism. In addition, there is no necessity for high quality fluoroscopy for visualization of sacral foramina intraoperatively, decreasing risk of radiation exposure, unlike other methods of fixation as iliosacral screws. Our novel modification for implantation technique provides few risks for postoperative and wound complications.
