Title: High-performance optical control of GPCR signaling by bistable animal opsins MosOpn3 and LamPP in a molecular property–dependent manner
Authors: Mitsumasa Koyanagi, Baoguo Shen, Takashi Nagata, Lanfang Sun, Seiji Wada, Satomi Kamimura, Eriko Kage-Nakadai, Akihisa Terakita
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2204341119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889881

Abstract:
Significance Optogenetics for GPCR signaling is highly valuable but is still developing and requires effective tools like ChR2. We demonstrated that two animal opsins, mosquito Opn3 (MosOpn3) and lamprey parapinopsin (LamPP), are available in optogenetics equivalently to ChR2 in terms of retinal requirement. Furthermore, MosOpn3 introduced into nociceptor neurons of C. elegans exhibited ~7,000 times higher sensitivity than ChR2 in the light-induced avoidance behavior. LamPP introduced into motor neurons induced violet light-dependent stop and green light-dependent go, demonstrating color-dependent control of behavior using LamPP. In addition, our molecular engineering extended the usability of MosOpn3 and LamPP to different signaling cascades and kinetics. The current findings provide numerous strategies for optical control of various GPCR-based physiologies as well as GPCR signaling itself. Optical control of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling is a highly valuable approach for comprehensive understanding of GPCR-based physiologies and controlling them precisely. However, optogenetics for GPCR signaling is still developing and requires effective and versatile tools with performance evaluation from their molecular properties. Here, we systematically investigated performance of two bistable opsins that activate Gi/Go-type G protein (mosquito Opn3 (MosOpn3) and lamprey parapinopsin (LamPP)) in optical control in vivo using Caenorhabditis elegans . Transgenic worms expressing MosOpn3, which binds 13- cis retinal to form photopigments, in nociceptor neurons showed light-induced avoidance responses in the presence of all- trans retinal, a retinal isomer ubiquitously present in every tissue, like microbial rhodopsins and unlike canonical vertebrate opsins. Remarkably, transgenic worms expressing MosOpn3 were ~7,000 times more sensitive to light than transgenic worms expressing ChR2 in this light-induced behavior, demonstrating the advantage of MosOpn3 as a light switch. LamPP is a UV-sensitive bistable opsin having complete photoregenerative ability by green light. Accordingly, transgenic worms expressing LamPP in cholinergic motor neurons stopped moving upon violet light illumination and restored coordinate movement upon green light illumination, demonstrating color-dependent control of behavior using LamPP. Furthermore, we applied molecular engineering to produce MosOpn3-based tools enabling light-dependent upregulation of cAMP or Ca 2+ levels and LamPP-based tool enabling clamping cAMP levels color dependently and context independently, extending their usability. These findings define the capacity of two bistable opsins with similar retinal requirement as ChR2, providing numerous strategies for optical control of various GPCR-based physiologies as well as GPCR signaling itself.
