Title: Affinity of cefotiam for the alternative penicillin binding protein PBP3 SAL used by Salmonella inside host eukaryotic cells
Authors: Juan J Cestero, Sónia Castanheira, Henar González, Óscar Zaragoza, Francisco García-del Portillo
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy
DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkac422
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890219

Abstract:
Abstract Background Following the invasion of eukaryotic cells, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium replaces PBP2/PBP3, main targets of β-lactam antibiotics, with PBP2 SAL /PBP3 SAL , two homologue peptidoglycan synthases absent in Escherichia coli . PBP3 SAL promotes pathogen cell division in acidic environments independently of PBP3 and shows low affinity for β-lactams that bind to PBP3 such as aztreonam, cefepime, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, cefuroxime and cefalotin. Objectives To find compounds with high affinity for PBP3 SAL to control Salmonella intracellular infections. Methods An S. Typhimurium ΔPBP3 mutant that divides using PBP3 SAL and its parental wild-type strain, were exposed to a library of 1520 approved drugs in acidified (pH 4.6) nutrient-rich LB medium. Changes in optical density associated with cell filamentation, a read-out of blockage in cell division, were monitored. Compounds causing filamentation in the ΔPBP3 mutant but not in wild-type strain—the latter strain expressing both PBP3 and PBP3 SAL in LB pH 4.6—were selected for further study. The bactericidal effect due to PBP3 SAL inhibition was evaluated in vitro using a bacterial infection model of cultured fibroblasts. Results The cephalosporin cefotiam exhibited higher affinity for PBP3 SAL than for PBP3 in bacteria growing in acidified LB pH 4.6 medium. Cefotiam also proved to be effective against intracellular Salmonella in a PBP3 SAL -dependent manner. Conversely, cefuroxime, which has higher affinity for PBP3, showed decreased effectiveness in killing intracellular Salmonella . Conclusions Antibiotics with affinity for PBP3 SAL , like the cephalosporin cefotiam, have therapeutic value for treating Salmonella intracellular infections.
