Title: Venetoclax plus low-dose cytarabine in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia ineligible for intensive chemotherapy: an expanded access study in Japan
Authors: Noboru Asada, Jun Ando, Satoru Takada, Chikashi Yoshida, Kensuke Usuki, Atsushi Shinagawa, Kenichi Ishizawa, Toshihiro Miyamoto, Hiroatsu Iida, Nobuaki Dobashi, Sumiko Okubo, Hideyuki Honda, Tomomi Soshin, Yasuko Nishimura, Atsuko Tsutsui, Harumi Mukai, Kazuhito Yamamoto
Year: 2023
Venue: Japanese Journal of Clinical Oncology
DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyad027
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10311156

Abstract:
Abstract Background In a Phase 3 international clinical trial (VIALE-C), venetoclax plus low-dose cytarabine improved the response rate and overall survival versus placebo plus low-dose cytarabine in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who were ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. After the enrollment period of VIALE-C ended, we conducted an expanded access study to provide preapproval access to venetoclax in combination with low-dose cytarabine in Japan. Methods Previously, untreated patients with acute myeloid leukemia who were ineligible for intensive chemotherapy were enrolled according to the VIALE-C criteria. Patients received venetoclax (600 mg, Days 1–28, 4-day ramp-up in Cycle 1) in 28-day cycles and low-dose cytarabine (20 mg/m 2 , Days 1–10). All patients took tumor lysis syndrome prophylactic agents and hydration. Safety endpoints were assessed. Results Fourteen patients were enrolled in this study. The median age was 77.5 years (range = 61–84), with 78.6% over 75 years old. The most common grade ≥ 3 treatment-emergent adverse event was neutropenia (57.1%). Febrile neutropenia was the most frequent serious adverse event (21.4%). One patient developed treatment-related acute kidney injury, leading to discontinuation of treatment. Two patients died because of cardiac failure and disease progression that were judged not related to study treatment. No patients developed tumor lysis syndrome. Conclusions The safety outcomes were similar to those in VIALE-C without new safety signals and were well managed with standard medical care. In clinical practice, more patients with severe background disease are expected, in comparison with in VIALE-C, suggesting that it is important to carefully manage and prevent adverse events. This expanded access study showed a manageable safety profile of venetoclax plus low-dose cytarabine in Japanese patients with untreated acute myeloid leukemia who were ineligible for standard intensive induction chemotherapy.
