Title: Is the production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species by macrophages associated with better infectious control in female mice with experimentally disseminated and pulmonary mucormycosis?
Authors: Amanda Ribeiro dos Santos, Thais Fernanda Fraga-Silva, Débora de Fátima Almeida-Donanzam, Angela Carolina Finatto, Camila Marchetti, Maria Izilda Andrade, Olavo Speranza de Arruda, Maria Sueli Parreira de Arruda, James Venturini
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0270071
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9754262

Abstract:
Different levels of resistance against Rhizopus oryzae infection have been observed between inbred (BALB/c) and outbred (Swiss) mice and are associated with the genetic background of each mouse strain. Considering that macrophages play an important role in host resistance to Rhizopus species, we used different infectious outcomes observed in experimental mucormycosis to identify the most efficient macrophage response pattern against R . oryzae in vitro and in vivo . For this, we compared BALB/c and Swiss macrophage activity before and after intravenous or intratracheal R . oryzae infections. The production of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) and nitric oxide (NO) was determined in cultures of peritoneal (PMΦ) or alveolar macrophages (AMΦ) challenged with heat-killed spores of R . oryzae . The levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) were measured to confirm our findings. Naïve PMΦ from female BALB/c mice showed increased production of H 2 O 2 , TNF-α, and IL-10 in the presence of heat-killed spores of R . oryzae . Naïve PMΦ from female Swiss mice were less responsive. Naïve AMΦ from the two strains of female mice were less reactive to heat-killed spores of R . oryzae than PMΦ. After 30 days of R . oryzae intravenous infection, lower fungal load in spleen from BALB/c mice was accompanied by higher production of H 2 O 2 by PMΦ compared with Swiss mice. In contrast, AMΦ from BALB/c mice showed higher production of NO, TNF-α, and IL-10 after 7 days of intratracheal infection. The collective findings reveal that, independent of the female mouse strain, PMΦ is more reactive against R . oryzae upon first contact than AMΦ. In addition, increased PMΦ production of H 2 O 2 at the end of disseminated infection is accompanied by better fungal clearance in resistant (BALB/c) mice. Our findings further the understanding of the parasite–host relationship in mucormycosis.
