Title: Comprehensive mapping of alternative polyadenylation site usage and its dynamics at single-cell resolution
Authors: Junliang Wang, Wei Chen, Wenjun Yue, Wenhong Hou, Feng Rao, Hanbing Zhong, Yuanming Qi, Ni Hong, Ting Ni, Wenfei Jin
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2113504119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9894249

Abstract:
Significance Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is an RNA-processing mechanism that produces transcripts with distinct 3′-end for the same gene. We developed single-cell polyadenylation sequencing (scPolyA-seq) to characterize APA at single-cell resolution. Interestingly, cell cycle genes were significantly enriched in genes with high variation in polyA site usage, as well as genes with the polyA site usage switch after cell synchronization. Particularly, by systemically analyzing APA dynamics along cell cycle, we found multiple gene clusters with different dynamic patterns of polyA site usage, indicating that APA is an important layer for cell cycle regulation. Deletion of one polyA site in several genes such as MSL1 and SCCPDH slowed or accelerated cell cycle progression, further supporting APA is an important cell cycle regulator. Alternative polyadenylation (APA) plays an important role in posttranscriptional gene regulation such as transcript stability and translation efficiency. However, our knowledge about APA dynamics at the single-cell level is largely unexplored. Here, we developed single-cell polyadenylation sequencing, a strand-specific approach for sequencing the 3′ end of transcripts, to investigate the landscape of APA at the single-cell level. By analyzing several cell lines, we found many genes using multiple polyA sites in bulk data are prone to use only one polyA site in each single cell. Interestingly, cell cycle genes were significantly enriched in genes with high variation in polyA site usages. Furthermore, the 414 genes showing a polyA site usage switch after cell synchronization enriched cell cycle genes, while the differentially expressed genes after cell synchronization did not enrich cell cycle genes. We further identified 812 genes showing polyA site usage changes between neighboring cell cycles, which were grouped into six clusters, with cell phase-specific functional categories enriched in each cluster. Deletion of one polyA site in MSL1 and SCCPDH results in slower and faster cell cycle progression, respectively, supporting polyA site usage switch played an important role in cell cycle. These results indicate that APA is an important layer for cell cycle regulation.
