Title: Computerized cognitive training for improving cochlear-implanted children's working memory and language skills
Authors: Ali SHARIFY, Mohammad AJALLOUEYAN, Masoumeh SAEEDI, Susan AMIRSALARI
Year: 2022
Venue: Iranian Journal of Child Neurology
DOI: 10.22037/ijcn.v16i4.30499
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9699931

Abstract:
Sensory deprivation, including hearing loss, can affect different aspects of a person’s life. Studies on children with hearing impairment have shown that such patients, especially those with cochlear implants (CIs), suffer from cognitive impairments, such as working memory problems and poor language skills. The present study aimed to examine the efficacy of cognitive computer training in improving working memory and language skills in children with a CI. This research was a quasi-experimental study with a pre-test-post-test design and a control group. Fifty-one children with a CI aged 6-12 years were recruited through convenience sampling and randomly assigned to the control and treatment groups. The Wechsler Working Memory Subtest and the Test of Language Development (TOLD) were used to evaluate children’s working memory and language skills pre- and post-treatment. The treatment group attended twenty 50-60-minute cognitive computer training sessions three times a week. Sina-Working Memory Training was used to provide the treatment group with working memory training, whereas no intervention was provided to the control group. Univariate and multivariate analyses of covariance were used to analyze data. The results demonstrated the efficacy of cognitive computer training in improving the performance of cochlear-implanted children’s working memory (auditory and visual-spatial) (P < 0.01). The results also pointed to improved performance in sentence imitation (P < 0.01), word discrimination (P < 0.01), and phonemic analysis subtests (P < 0.01). Overall, the findings indicated that cognitive computer training might improve working memory and language skills for children with CI. Therefore, the development and execution of such programs for children with CIs seem to improve their cognitive functions, such as working memory and language skills.
