Title: Induction of hepatocyte‐like cells from human umbilical cord‐derived mesenchymal stem cells by defined microRNAs
Authors: Xia Zhou, Lina Cui, Xinmin Zhou, Qiong Yang, Lu Wang, Guanya Guo, Yu Hou, Weile Cai, Zheyi Han, Yongquan Shi, Ying Han
Year: 2016
Venue: Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13027
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5387126

Abstract:
Abstract Generating functional hepatocyte‐like cells ( HLC s) from mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC s) is of great urgency for bio‐artificial liver support system (BALSS). Previously, we obtained HLC s from human umbilical cord‐derived MSC s by overexpressing seven micro RNA s ( HLC ‐7) and characterized their liver functions in vitro and in vivo . Here, we aimed to screen out the optimal mi RNA candidates for hepatic differentiation. We sequentially removed individual mi RNA s from the pool and examined the effect of transfection with remainder using RT ‐ PCR , periodic acid—Schiff ( PAS ) staining and low‐density lipoprotein ( LDL ) uptake assays and by assessing their function in liver injury models. Surprisingly, miR‐30a and miR‐1290 were dispensable for hepatic differentiation. The remaining five mi RNA s (miR‐122, miR‐148a, miR‐424, miR‐542‐5p and miR‐1246) are essential for this process, because omitting any one from the five‐mi RNA combination prevented hepatic trans‐differentiation. We found that HLC s trans‐differentiated from five micro RNA s ( HLC ‐5) expressed high level of hepatic markers and functioned similar to hepatocytes. Intravenous transplantation of HLC ‐5 into nude mice with CC l 4 ‐induced fulminant liver failure and acute liver injury not only improved serum parameters and their liver histology, but also improved survival rate of mice in severe hepatic failure. These data indicated that HLC ‐5 functioned similar to HLC ‐7 in vitro and in vivo , which have been shown to resemble hepatocytes. Instead of using seven‐mi RNA combination, a simplified five‐mi RNA combination can be used to obtain functional HLC s in only 7 days. Our study demonstrated an optimized and efficient method for generating functional MSC ‐derived HLC s that may serve as an attractive cell alternative for BALSS.
