Title: Natural Deep Eutectic Solvents for the Extraction of Triterpene Saponins from Aralia elata var. mandshurica (Rupr. & Maxim.) J. Wen
Authors: Alyona A. Petrochenko, Anastasia Orlova, Nadezhda Frolova, Evgeny B. Serebryakov, Alena Soboleva, Elena V. Flisyuk, Andrej Frolov, Alexander N. Shikov
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083614
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140851

Abstract:
The roots of the medicinal plant Aralia elata are rich in biologically active natural products, with triterpene saponins constituting one of their major groups. These metabolites can be efficiently extracted by methanol and ethanol. Due to their low toxicity, natural deep eutectic solvents (NADES) were recently proposed as promising alternative extractants for the isolation of natural products from medicinal plants. However, although NADES-based extraction protocols are becoming common in routine phytochemical work, their application in the isolation of triterpene saponins has not yet been addressed. Therefore, here, we address the potential of NADES in the extraction of triterpene saponins from the roots of A. elata . For this purpose, the previously reported recoveries of Araliacea triterpene saponins in extraction experiments with seven different acid-based NADES were addressed by a targeted LC-MS-based quantitative approach for, to the best of our knowledge, the first time. Thereby, 20 triterpene saponins were annotated by their exact mass and characteristic fragmentation patterns in the total root material, root bark and root core of A. elata by RP-UHPLC-ESI-QqTOF-MS, with 9 of them being identified in the roots of this plant for the first time. Triterpene saponins were successfully extracted from all tested NADES, with the highest efficiency (both in terms of the numbers and recoveries of individual analytes) achieved using a 1:1 mixture of choline chloride and malic acid, as well as a 1:3 mixture of choline chloride and lactic acid. Thereby, for 13 metabolites, NADES were more efficient extractants in comparison with water and ethanol. Our results indicate that new, efficient NADES-based extraction protocols, giving access to high recoveries of triterpene saponins, might be efficiently employed in laboratory practice. Thus, our data open the prospect of replacing alcohols with NADES in the extraction of A. elata roots.
