Title: Partial erosion on under-methylated regions and chromatin reprogramming contribute to oncogene activation in IDH mutant gliomas
Authors: Xinyu Wang, Lijun Dai, Yang Liu, Chenghao Li, Dandan Fan, Yue Zhou, Pengcheng Li, Qingran Kong, Jianzhong Su
Year: 2023
Venue: Epigenetics & Chromatin
DOI: 10.1186/s13072-023-00490-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142198

Abstract:
Background IDH1/2 hotspot mutations are well known to drive oncogenic mutations in gliomas and are well-defined in the WHO 2021 classification of central nervous system tumors. Specifically, IDH mutations lead to aberrant hypermethylation of under-methylated regions (UMRs) in normal tissues through the disruption of TET enzymes. However, the chromatin reprogramming and transcriptional changes induced by IDH -related hypermethylation in gliomas remain unclear. Results Here, we have developed a precise computational framework based on Hidden Markov Model to identify altered methylation states of UMRs at single-base resolution. By applying this framework to whole-genome bisulfite sequencing data from 75 normal brain tissues and 15 IDH mutant glioma tissues, we identified two distinct types of hypermethylated UMRs in IDH mutant gliomas. We named them partially hypermethylated UMRs (phUMRs) and fully hypermethylated UMRs (fhUMRs), respectively. We found that the phUMRs and fhUMRs exhibit distinct genomic features and chromatin states. Genes related to fhUMRs were more likely to be repressed in IDH mutant gliomas. In contrast, genes related to phUMRs were prone to be up-regulated in IDH mutant gliomas. Such activation of phUMR genes is associated with the accumulation of active H3K4me3 and the loss of H3K27me3, as well as H3K36me3 accumulation in gene bodies to maintain gene expression stability. In summary, partial erosion on UMRs was accompanied by locus-specific changes in key chromatin marks, which may contribute to oncogene activation. Conclusions Our study provides a computational strategy for precise decoding of methylation encroachment patterns in IDH mutant gliomas, revealing potential mechanistic insights into chromatin reprogramming that contribute to oncogenesis. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13072-023-00490-x.
