Title: Maternal immune activation alters placental histone-3 lysine-9 tri-methylation, offspring sensorimotor processing, and hypothalamic transposable element expression in a sex-specific manner
Authors: Holly DeRosa, Arianna Smith, Laurel Geist, Ada Cheng, Richard G. Hunter, Amanda C. Kentner
Year: 2023
Venue: Neurobiology of Stress
DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2023.100538
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149420

Abstract:
Animal models of maternal immune activation (MIA) are central to identifying the biological mechanisms that underly the association between prenatal infection and neuropsychiatric disorder susceptibility. Many studies, however, have limited their scope to protein coding genes and their role in mediating this inherent risk, while much less attention has been directed towards exploring the roles of the epigenome and transposable elements (TEs). In Experiment 1, we demonstrate the ability of MIA to alter the chromatin landscape of the placenta. We induced MIA by injecting 200 μg/kg (i.p.) of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on gestational day 15 in Sprague-Dawley rats. We found a sex-specific rearrangement of heterochromatin 24-h after exposure to MIA, as evidenced by an increase in histone-3 lysine-9 trimethylation (H3K9me3). In Experiment 2, MIA was associated with long-term sensorimotor processing deficits as indicated by reduced prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex in adult male and female offspring and an increased mechanical allodynia threshold in males. Analyses of gene expression within the hypothalamus-chosen for its involvement in the sex-specific pathogenesis of schizophrenia and the stress response-revealed significantly higher levels of the stress-sensitive genes Gr and Fkbp5 . Deleterious TE expression is often a hallmark of neuropsychiatric disease and we found sex-specific increases in the expression of several TEs including IAP, B2 SINE, and LINE-1 ORF1. The data from this study warrant the future consideration of chromatin stability and TEs as part of the mechanism that drives MIA-associated changes in the brain and behavior.
