Title: Magnetic anomaly inversion through the novel barnacles mating optimization algorithm
Authors: Hanbing Ai, Khalid S. Essa, Yunus Levent Ekinci, Çağlayan Balkaya, Hongxing Li, Yves Géraud
Year: 2022
Venue: Scientific Reports
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-26265-0
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803702

Abstract:
Dealing with the ill-posed and non-unique nature of the non-linear geophysical inverse problem via local optimizers requires the use of some regularization methods, constraints, and prior information about the Earth's complex interior. Another difficulty is that the success of local search algorithms depends on a well-designed initial model located close to the parameter set providing the global minimum. On the other hand, global optimization and metaheuristic algorithms that have the ability to scan almost the entire model space do not need an assertive initial model. Thus, these approaches are increasingly incorporated into parameter estimation studies and are also gaining more popularity in the geophysical community. In this study we present the Barnacles Mating Optimizer (BMO), a recently proposed global optimizer motivated by the special mating behavior of barnacles, to interpret magnetic anomalies. This is the first example in the literature of BMO application to a geophysical inverse problem. After performing modal analyses and parameter tuning processes, BMO has been tested on simulated magnetic anomalies generated from hypothetical models and subsequently applied to three real anomalies that are chromite deposit, uranium deposit and Mesozoic dike. A second moving average (SMA) scheme to eliminate regional anomalies from observed anomalies has been examined and certified. Post-inversion uncertainty assessment analyses have been also implemented to understand the reliability of the solutions achieved. Moreover, BMO’s solutions for convergence rate, stability, robustness and accuracy have been compared with the solutions of the commonly used standard Particle Swarm Optimization (sPSO) algorithm. The results have shown that the BMO algorithm can scan the model parameter space more extensively without affecting its ability to consistently approach the unique global minimum in this presented inverse problem. We, therefore, recommend the use of competitive BMO in model parameter estimation studies performed with other geophysical methods.
