Title: True superficial temporal artery aneurysm: A case after extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery and a systematic review
Authors: Masahiko Itani, Kampei Shimizu, Shoichi Tani, Motoaki Fujimoto, Hideki Ogata, Shota Yoshida, Yoshihito Hirata, Yoshinori Akiyama
Year: 2022
Venue: Surgical Neurology International
DOI: 10.25259/SNI_848_2022
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805649

Abstract:
Background: Nontraumatic true superficial temporal artery aneurysm (STAA) is rare, and its characteristics and pathogenesis are unclear. Methods: We report a case of STAA and performed a systematic review of PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science using the keyword “superficial temporal artery aneurysm” to include studies on STAA reported through July 2022. We excluded studies on STAA associated with trauma, arterial dissection, infection, or vasculitis. Results: A 63-year-old woman who underwent left superficial temporal artery (STA)-middle cerebral artery bypass surgery 8 years previously was diagnosed with an aneurysm located at the left STA. The blood flow volume estimated by ultrasonography was higher in the left STA than in the contralateral counterpart (114 mL/min vs. 32 mL/min). She underwent clipping surgery to prevent aneurysmal rupture without sequela. The lesion was diagnosed as a true aneurysm by histology. The systematic review identified 63 cases (including the present case) of nontraumatic true STAA. The median age of the patients was 57 (interquartile range [IQR]: 41–70) years. Most (90.5%) cases were detected as a palpable mass. Aneurysmal rupture occurred in only 1 (1.6%) case, despite the large size of aneurysms (median size: 13 [IQR: 8–20] mm) and the high frequency (33.3%) of aneurysmal growth during observation. Most (93.7%) patients underwent surgical resection of STAA without sequela. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the pathogenesis of true STAA is promoted by hemodynamic stress. The systematic review clarified patients’ and aneurysmal characteristics and treatment outcomes, providing further insight into the pathogenesis of nontraumatic true STAA.
