Title: Wettability of polytetrafluoroethylene surfaces by plasma etching modifications
Authors: Hyomin Kang, Sang Hyuk Lee, Kiwoong Kim
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0282352
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10065265

Abstract:
Superhydrophobic surfaces (SHS) are attracting attention in many fields owing to their excellent advantages such as anti-freezing, corrosion prevention, and self-cleaning. However, to modify the surface structure, environmental pollution caused by complex processes and chemical treatment must be considered. In this study, the surface of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) was plasma-treated using oxygen and argon plasma to change the surface structure without a complicated process. The PTFE surface was treated in two ways: plasma etching (PE) and reactive ion etching (RIE). The contact angle of the conventional PTFE surface was 113.8 ± 1.4°, but the contact angle of the manufactured surface was 152.3 ± 1.7° and 172.5 ± 1.2°. The chemical composition and physical structure of the samples produced were compared. The treated specimens had the same chemical composition as the specimen before treatment and exhibited differences in their surface structures. Therefore, it was determined that the change in the water repellency was due to the surface structure. After PE treatment, the specimen surface had a mountain range-like structure, and the RIE specimen had a more detailed structure than the PE specimen. The contact rate of water droplets decreased due to the difference in the structure of the specimen before and after treatment, and the increase in the surface contact angle was manifested. In order to confirm that the plasma treatment reduces surface energy, the shape of the liquid collision was observed using a high-speed camera, and the contact time was calculated to confirm water repellency. The contact time of the PE and RIE specimen was 24 milli-second (ms) and 18 ms, respectively. The high contact angle and low sliding angle of the RIE specimen made it easy to restore surface cleanliness in a self-cleaning experiment using graphite.
