Title: Phenotypic diversity and metabolic specialization of renal endothelial cells
Authors: Sébastien J. Dumas, Elda Meta, Mila Borri, Yonglun Luo, Xuri Li, Ton J. Rabelink, Peter Carmeliet
Year: 2021
Venue: Nature Reviews. Nephrology
DOI: 10.1038/s41581-021-00411-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC7993417

Abstract:
Complex multicellular life in mammals relies on functional cooperation of different organs for the survival of the whole organism. The kidneys play a critical part in this process through the maintenance of fluid volume and composition homeostasis, which enables other organs to fulfil their tasks. The renal endothelium exhibits phenotypic and molecular traits that distinguish it from endothelia of other organs. Moreover, the adult kidney vasculature comprises diverse populations of mostly quiescent, but not metabolically inactive, endothelial cells (ECs) that reside within the kidney glomeruli, cortex and medulla. Each of these populations supports specific functions, for example, in the filtration of blood plasma, the reabsorption and secretion of water and solutes, and the concentration of urine. Transcriptional profiling of these diverse EC populations suggests they have adapted to local microenvironmental conditions (hypoxia, shear stress, hyperosmolarity), enabling them to support kidney functions. Exposure of ECs to microenvironment-derived angiogenic factors affects their metabolism, and sustains kidney development and homeostasis, whereas EC-derived angiocrine factors preserve distinct microenvironment niches. In the context of kidney disease, renal ECs show alteration in their metabolism and phenotype in response to pathological changes in the local microenvironment, further promoting kidney dysfunction. Understanding the diversity and specialization of kidney ECs could provide new avenues for the treatment of kidney diseases and kidney regeneration. The adult kidney vasculature comprises diverse populations of endothelial cells that support specific functions according to their microenvironment. This Review summarizes our current understanding of the phenotypic, molecular and metabolic heterogeneity of renal endothelial cells in relation to their microenvironment and the potential application of targeting renal endothelial cell metabolism as a therapeutic strategy for kidney diseases or kidney regeneration. Key points The endothelium differs between different organs, probably to support distinct organ functions. Multiple specialized endothelial cell phenotypes coexist within the renal glomeruli, cortex and medulla; these function to support glomerular filtration, the reabsorption and secretion of ions and metabolites, and urine concentration. The different local microenvironments in the kidney shape the molecular and metabolic heterogeneity of the renal endothelium; conversely, endothelial cell-derived angiocrine factors sustain the niches of different kidney microenvironments. The metabolism of renal endothelial cells can be altered in the context of kidney injury and diseases, partly as a result of changes in the microenvironment. Greater understanding of the phenotypic diversity and metabolic specialization of renal endothelial cells may aid identification of new targets for the treatment of kidney diseases and kidney regeneration.
