Title: Velvet Family Members Regulate Pigment Synthesis of the Fruiting Bodies of Auricularia cornea
Authors: Xiaoxu Ma, Lixin Lu, Youmin Zhang, Ming Fang, Kaisheng Shao, Xu Sun, Fangjie Yao, Peng Wang
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Fungi
DOI: 10.3390/jof9040412
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140996

Abstract:
Color is a crucial feature to consider when breeding and improving strains of Auricularia cornea . To uncover the mechanism of white strain formation in A. cornea , this study selected parental strains that were homozygous for the color trait and analyzed the genetic laws of A. cornea color through genetic population construction, such as test-cross, back-cross, and self-cross populations, and the statistical analysis of color trait segregation. Moreover, the study developed SSR molecular markers to construct a genetic linkage map, perform the fine mapping the color-controlling genetic locus, and verify candidate genes using yeast two-hybrid, transcriptome analysis, and different light treatments. The results of the study indicated that the color trait of A. cornea is controlled by two pairs of alleles. When both pairs of loci are dominant, the fruiting body is purple, while when both pairs of loci are recessive or one pair of loci is recessive, the fruiting body is white. Based on the linkage map, the study finely mapped the color locus within Contig9_29,619bp-53,463bp in the A. cornea genome and successfully predicted the color-controlling locus gene A18078 ( AcveA ), which belongs to the Velvet factor family protein and has a conserved structure domain of the VeA protein. It can form a dimer with the VelB protein to inhibit pigment synthesis in filamentous fungi. Lastly, the study validated the interaction between AcVeA and VelB (AcVelB) in A. cornea at the gene, protein, and phenotype levels, revealing the mechanism of inhibition of pigment synthesis in A. cornea . Under dark conditions, dimerization occurs, allowing it to enter the nucleus and inhibit pigment synthesis, leading to a lighter fruiting body color. However, under light conditions, the dimer content is low and cannot enter the nucleus to inhibit pigment synthesis. In summary, this study clarified the mechanism of white strain formation in A. cornea , which could aid in improving white strains of A. cornea and studying the genetic basis of color in other fungi.
