Title: Genome-wide identification and expression analysis of ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB genes families in Citrullus lanatus under various abiotic stresses and grafting
Authors: Chenliang Yu, Wenqi Dong, Yihua Zhan, Zong-an Huang, Zhimiao Li, Il Seop Kim, Chenghao Zhang
Year: 2017
Venue: BMC Genetics
DOI: 10.1186/s12863-017-0500-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5384148

Abstract:
Background Auxin plays an important role in regulating plant growth and development as well as in the response of plants to abiotic stresses. Auxin is transported by three kinds of major protein families, including the AUXIN RESISTANT 1/LIKE AUX1 (AUX⁄LAX) influx carriers, the PIN-FORMED (PIN) efflux carriers and the ATP binding cassette B/P-glycoprotein/Multidrug-resistance (ABCB/MDR/PGP) efflux/condition carriers. The biological function of several auxin transporter genes has been well characterized in Arabidopsis thaliana . However, their function in response to exogenous auxin and abiotic stresses in watermelon ( Citrullus lanatus . L) remained unknown. Results Here, the latest updated watermelon genome was used to characterise the ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB family genes from watermelon. The genome-wide analysis of the ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB family genes, including chromosome localisation, gene structure, and phylogenic relationships, was carried out. Seven ClLAXs , 11 ClPINs and 15 ClABCBs were mapped on 10 watermelon chromosomes. The expression profiles of the ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB genes under exogenous indole-3-acetic acid and various abiotic stresses (salt, drought, and cold stresses) treatments were performed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The transcriptional level of majority ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB genes were changed by abiotic stresses in both shoots and roots. We also analysed the expression levels of ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB genes in graft response. Conclusion Analysis of the expression patterns of ClLAX , ClPIN and ClABCB genes under salt, drought, cold treatment and grafting response helps us to understand the possible roles of auxin transporter genes in watermelon adaptation to environmental stresses. Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s12863-017-0500-z) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
