Title: A COVID-19 self-isolation monitoring module for FMUI undergraduate medical students: Linking learning and service needs during the pandemic surge in Indonesia
Authors: Retno Asti Werdhani, Ardi Findyartini, Dewi Anggraeni Kusumoningrum, Chaina Hanum, Dina Muktiarti, Oktavinda Safitry, Wismandari Wisnu, Dewi Sumaryani Soemarko, Reynardi Larope Sutanto
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0279742
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803291

Abstract:
To ensure that students continued receiving adequate yet safe clinical exposure during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Faculty of Medicine at Universitas Indonesia (FMUI) created the Module of COVID-19 Self-Isolation Monitoring which aims to equip students with the knowledge and skill to monitor confirmed and close contact cases of COVID-19. Module development, divided into four phases: preparation, orientation, implementation, and evaluation phase, started as soon as the delta wave of COVID-19 cases forced medical students to halt their offline clinical rotations. A quantitative secondary data were obtained from student and patient satisfaction questionnaires and on students’ performance and reflection. We analyzed the distribution of module evaluation, the student’s discussion score during the module, the students’ interest in participating as Covid-19 volunteers before and after the module’s deployment, and the correlation between learning outcomes and satisfaction. A total of 372 patients were monitored by 208 students during the 4-week module. The response rates were above 80%, with the majority agreeing that students found this module well-organized and fulfilled their expectations. There was a significant increase in discussion scores from weeks 1 to 4, a significant difference in the proportion of students interested in COVID-19 volunteering before and after the module completion as well as a significant low correlation between the patient’s monitoring score sheet and the reflection essay towards the patient’s satisfaction. We should still improve tutors’ time management, tutors’ provision of triggering questions for critical thinking skills, and tutors’ feedback for students. The module met patient expectations and is expected to assist tutors in providing feedback and examples of doctor–patient communication, thus accelerating students’ competence in patient interaction. Further evaluation is needed regarding knowledge transfer, the impact on community health, and the faculty development program, especially regarding how tutors fulfill their roles as medical educators.
