Title: Including mental health care in a model of European health system
Authors: Livio Garattini, Angelo Barbato, Barbara D'Avanzo, Alessandro Nobili
Year: 2023
Venue: Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences
DOI: 10.1017/S2045796023000057
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9971856

Abstract:
The management of a health system is a matter of economics and business administration because of the costs induced by goods and services delivered. Economics teaches us that the positive effects induced by competition in free markets cannot be expected in health care, which is a classic example of market failure from both demand and supply sides. The most sensible key concepts to refer for managing a health system are funding and provision. While the logical solution for the first variable is universal coverage through general taxation, the second one requires a deeper understanding. Integrated care is the modern approach that better supports the choice in favour of the public sector also for service provision. A major threat against this approach is dual practice legally allowed for health professionals, which inevitably raises financial conflicts of interest. An exclusive contract of employment for civil servants should be the sine qua non for providing public services effectively and efficiently. Integrated care is particularly important for long-term chronic illnesses associated with high levels of disability, such as neurodegenerative diseases and mental disorders, where the mix of health and social services needed can be very complex. Nowadays the growing number of community-dwelling patients with multiple physical and mental health needs is the major challenge for the European health systems. This happens also in public health systems, which should provide universal health coverage in principle, and the case of mental disorders is striking. In the light of this theoretical exercise, we strongly believe that a public National Health and Social Service should be the most indicated model for both funding and providing health and social care in modern societies. The big challenge of the common model of European health system here envisaged would be to limit the negative influences of politics and bureaucracy.
