Title: Anti-angiogenic effect of the combination of low-dose sorafenib and EGCG in HCC-induced Wistar rats
Authors: Andry Irawan, Erik Prabowo, Ignatius Riwanto, Wahyuni Lukita Atmodjo
Year: 2022
Venue: F1000Research
DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.109142.3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9843086

Abstract:
Background: Sorafenib is a standard drug used for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma but is often resistant and toxic. Its combination with epigallo-3-catechin gallate leads to reduced resistance and toxicity but an equally effective anti-angiogenic effect.Therefore, this study aims to assess the anti-angiogenic effect of standard-dose Sorafenib compared to the combination of low-dose Sorafenib and epigallo-3-catechin gallate. Methods: We conducted an animal study and double-blind, randomized controlled trials. A total of 25 male Wistar rats (7 weeks old) were randomly divided into four groups, namely Sham (K), Control (O), a combination of low-dose Sorafenib and epigallo-3-catechin gallate group (X1), and standard-dose Sorafenib group (X2). All groups were injected with N-Nitrosodiethylamine 70 mg/kg body weight (BW) intraperitoneally for ten weeks, except the Sham group. After the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, X1 and X2 were treated for two weeks. Subsequently, liver tissues and tumor masses were examined for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) level and microvascular density expression. Results: There was a significant difference (p=0.007) in the level of VEGF between group X1 (low dose Sorafenib + EGCG) and X2 (Standard dose Sorafenib). However, the differences in VEGF levels of group X1 and X2 compared to group O(Control) were significantly lower, with values p=0.000136 and p=0.019, respectively. The expression of microvascular density between groups X1 and X2 was not entirely different. Meanwhile, a significant difference (p<0.05) was discovered when both groups were compared with the control group. Conclusion: The combination of low-dose Sorafenib with epigallo-3-catechin gallate is superior in reducing the level of VEGF compared to standard-dose Sorafenib and is better than the control. Standard-dose Sorafenib and the combination of low-dose Sorafenib and epigallo-3-catechin gallate have similar effectivity in reducing the expression of microvascular density and could prevent resistance and lower toxicity effects.
