Title: Probing FeSi, a d -electron topological Kondo insulator candidate, with magnetic field, pressure, and microwaves
Authors: Alexander J. Breindel, Yuhang Deng, Camilla M. Moir, Yuankan Fang, Sheng Ran, Hongbo Lou, Shubin Li, Qiaoshi Zeng, Lei Shu, Christian T. Wolowiec, Ivan K. Schuller, Priscila F. S. Rosa, Zachary Fisk, John Singleton, M. Brian Maple
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2216367120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974408

Abstract:
Significance The properties of the correlated electron small gap semiconductor FeSi are reminiscent of those of a small class of lanthanide- and actinide-based compounds known as Kondo insulators. This led to the conjecture that FeSi may be a d -electron counterpart of an f -electron Kondo insulator. We recently reported evidence for a conducting surface state (CSS) in FeSi below 19 K that suggests that FeSi may be a “topological” Kondo insulator. In this work, we probed FeSi with magnetic field, pressure, and microwaves. The studies involving magnetic field and pressure yielded similar behavior to those on the putative topological Kondo insulator SmB 6 . The magnetic field-modulated microwave spectroscopy measurements revealed a sharp feature at the CSS onset, possibly of magnetic origin. Recently, evidence for a conducting surface state (CSS) below 19 K was reported for the correlated d -electron small gap semiconductor FeSi. In the work reported herein, the CSS and the bulk phase of FeSi were probed via electrical resistivity ρ measurements as a function of temperature T , magnetic field B to 60 T, and pressure P to 7.6 GPa, and by means of a magnetic field-modulated microwave spectroscopy (MFMMS) technique. The properties of FeSi were also compared with those of the Kondo insulator SmB 6 to address the question of whether FeSi is a d -electron analogue of an f -electron Kondo insulator and, in addition, a “topological Kondo insulator” (TKI). The overall behavior of the magnetoresistance of FeSi at temperatures above and below the onset temperature T S = 19 K of the CSS is similar to that of SmB 6 . The two energy gaps, inferred from the ρ( T ) data in the semiconducting regime, increase with pressure up to about 7 GPa, followed by a drop which coincides with a sharp suppression of T S . Several studies of ρ( T ) under pressure on SmB 6 reveal behavior similar to that of FeSi in which the two energy gaps vanish at a critical pressure near the pressure at which T S vanishes, although the energy gaps in SmB 6 initially decrease with pressure, whereas in FeSi they increase with pressure. The MFMMS measurements showed a sharp feature at T S ≈ 19 K for FeSi, which could be due to ferromagnetic ordering of the CSS. However, no such feature was observed at T S ≈ 4.5 K for SmB 6 .
