Title: The Cochrane Skin Group: a vanguard for developing and promoting evidence‐based dermatology
Authors: Anand Reddi, Laura Prescott, Elizabeth Doney, Finola Delamere, Ramya Kollipara, Robert P Dellavalle, Hywel C Williams
Year: 2013
Venue: Journal of Evidence-Based Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jebm.12068
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4163638

Abstract:
Abstract Aim The Cochrane Skin Group (CSG) is part of the international Cochrane Collaboration ( http://www.cochrane.org/ ). The CSG prepares, maintains and disseminates high quality evidence‐based summaries on the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of skin diseases. We present a synopsis of the history, scope and priorities of the CSG. In addition, we report outcomes of CSG reviews and critically assess clinical value. Methods Descriptive analysis of systematic reviews published by the CSG since its inception including output, impact factor, associated methodological studies, and influence in clinical guidelines, promoting patient and public engagement and in triggering new primary research. Results The CSG started in 1997, and has published 61 reviews, 34 protocols and 31 registered titles by August 2013. The CSG scope includes 1000 skin diseases; 80% of reviews cover the top ten diagnoses and 40% of reviews provide clear guidance for clinical practice. CSG reviews had an impact factor of 6.1 in 2011 which places it alongside top dermatology journals. CSG reviews are typically broad in focus and have been shown to be of better quality than non‐Cochrane reviews. They are highly cited in clinical guidelines. Several reviews have identified evidence gaps that have led to better primary research. Conclusions The CSG has emerged as a vanguard of evidence‐based dermatology by growing a community interested in applying best external evidence to the care of skin patients and by identifying topics for research. CSG reviews are high impact, clinically relevant and have tangibly influenced international dermatology clinical practice guidelines and new research.
