Title: ANGPTL2 binds MAG to efficiently enhance oligodendrocyte differentiation
Authors: Lu Chen, Zhuo Yu, Li Xie, Xiaoxiao He, Xingmei Mu, Chiqi Chen, Wenqian Yang, Xiaoping Tong, Junling Liu, Zhengliang Gao, Suya Sun, NanJie Xu, Zhigang Lu, Junke Zheng, Yaping Zhang
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell & Bioscience
DOI: 10.1186/s13578-023-00970-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9976406

Abstract:
Background Oligodendrocytes have robust regenerative ability and are key players in remyelination during physiological and pathophysiological states. However, the mechanisms of brain microenvironmental cue in regulation of the differentiation of oligodendrocytes still needs to be further investigated. Results We demonstrated that myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) was a novel receptor for angiopoietin-like protein 2 (ANGPTL2). The binding of ANGPTL2 to MAG efficiently promoted the differentiation of oligodendrocytes in vitro, as evaluated in an HCN cell line. Angptl2 -null mice had a markedly impaired myelination capacity in the early stage of oligodendrocyte development. These mice had notably decreased remyelination capacities and enhanced motor disability in a cuprizone-induced demyelinating mouse model, which was similar to the Mag -null mice. The loss of remyelination ability in Angptl2 -null/ Mag -null mice was similar to the Angptl2 -WT/ Mag -null mice, which indicated that the ANGPTL2-mediated oligodendrocyte differentiation effect depended on the MAG receptor. ANGPTL2 bound MAG to enhance its phosphorylation level and recruit Fyn kinase, which increased Fyn phosphorylation levels, followed by the transactivation of myelin regulatory factor (MYRF). Conclusion Our study demonstrated an unexpected cross-talk between the environmental protein (ANGPTL2) and its surface receptor (MAG) in the regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation, which may benefit the treatment of many demyelination disorders, including multiple sclerosis. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13578-023-00970-3.
