Title: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis on the Impact of Various Aligner Materials and Attachments on Orthodontic Tooth Movement
Authors: Mohammad Khursheed Alam, Bushra Kanwal, Abedalrahman Shqaidef, Haytham Jamil Alswairki, Ahmed Ali Alfawzan, Abdulilah Ibrahim Alabdullatif, Abdulaziz Naser Aalmunif, Sattam Hamad Aljrewey, Thamer Abdullah Alothman, Deepti Shrivastava, Kumar Chandan Srivastava
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Functional Biomaterials
DOI: 10.3390/jfb14040209
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141153

Abstract:
The majority of patients strongly favor the use of aligners in the present time, especially with the advancement in esthetic dentistry. Today’s market is flooded with aligner companies, many of which share the same therapeutic ethos. We therefore carried out a systematic review and network meta-analysis to evaluate research that had looked at various aligner materials and attachments and their effect on orthodontic tooth movement in relevant studies. A total of 634 papers were discovered after a thorough search of online journals using keywords such as “Aligners”, “Orthodontics”, “Orthodontic attachments”, “Orthodontic tooth movement”, and “Polyethylene” across databases such as PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane. The authors individually and in parallel carried out the database investigation, removal of duplicate studies, data extraction, and bias risk. The statistical analysis demonstrated that the type of aligner material had a significant impact on orthodontic tooth movement. The low level of heterogeneity and significant overall effect further support this finding. However, there was little effect of attachment size or shape on tooth mobility. The examined materials were primarily concerned with influencing the physical/physicochemical characteristics of the appliances and not tooth movement directly. Invisalign (Inv) had a higher mean value than the other types of materials that were analyzed, which suggested a potentially greater impact on orthodontic tooth movement. However, its variance value indicated that there was also greater uncertainty associated with the estimate compared to some of the other plastics. These findings could have important implications for orthodontic treatment planning and aligner material selection. Registration: This review protocol was registered on the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO; registration number: CRD42022381466).
