Title: Effectiveness of Vitamin D along with Splint therapy in the Vit D deficient patients with Temporomandibular disorder-A Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial
Authors: Abhishek Kumar Gupta, Rekha Gupta, Shubhra Gill
Year: 2022
Venue: The Journal of the Indian Prosthodontic Society
DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_334_21
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8884346

Abstract:
Aim: The purpose of this study is to comparatively evaluate the Vitamin D supplementation and stabilization splint therapy in patients exhibiting temporomandibular disorders (TMD). Settings and Design: The study design was double-blinded, parallel-group, randomized and placebo-controlled trial conducted in patients with low Vitamin D and TMDs, which were allocated to two groups, Study group S + D (Stabilization splint with Vitamin D supplementation) and Control Group S (Stabilization Splint with placebo drug). Subjects and Methods: Thirty-six participants of 18–45 years of age gap with Vitamin D deficiency and TMD were included in the study. Preoperative values of Vitamin D levels in ng/ml, comfort mouth opening (CMO) in mm, maximum mouth opening (MMO) in mm, temporomandibular joint (TMJ) tenderness (grading 0–3), Visual analog scale score (VAS Score 0–10 cm), and total energy (TE) integral values of both left and right TMJ's in Hertz (Hz) were recorded using joint vibration analysis All the values of CMO, MMO, TMJ Tenderness and VAS were recorded at each follow-up at 1 st week, 1 st month, 2 nd month, and 3 rd month, respectively. Postoperative Vitamin D levels and TE of both TMJs were recorded at end of 3 months. Statistical Analysis Used: For intergroup comparison, Mann–Whitney U -test and Pearson Chi-square tests were done. For Intragroup comparison, Wilcoxon signed rank test was used for comparison. Results: In Intergroup comparison, a significant difference was seen in CMO, VAS score and MMO ( P < 0.05) but not among mean values of TE of right and left TMJ, and Vitamin D levels ( P < 0.05). In both groups, there were significant statistical variations in CMO, VAS score, MMO, and TE integral before and after treatment in the right and left TMJs ( P < 0.05). Conclusions: The study concludes centric stabilization splint helps in improving symptoms of TMD patients and Vitamin D supplementation provided faster relief in those cases.
