Title: The association between childhood trauma and overweight and obesity in young adults: the mediating role of food addiction
Authors: Samuel Offer, Elise Alexander, Kelsie Barbara, Erik Hemmingsson, Stuart W. Flint, Blake J. Lawrence
Year: 2022
Venue: Eating and Weight Disorders
DOI: 10.1007/s40519-022-01454-y
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803752

Abstract:
Purpose Childhood trauma is associated with increased risk of obesity during adulthood, which may be associated with the development of food addiction. This study examined whether food addiction mediated the relationship between childhood trauma and obesity in young adults. Methods A sample of 512 young adults, aged 18 to 30 years, living with overweight and obesity (Body Mass Index ≥ 25 kg/m 2 ), from the United Kingdom participated in the study. Participants completed the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ), the Yale Food Addiction Scale, and provided their current height and weight to compute their Body Mass Index (BMI). Results Using the PROCESS macro, a mediation analysis found that food addiction accounted for 45% of variance in the relationship between childhood trauma and BMI. Post hoc analyses were conducted to examine the mediating effect of food addiction across each of the five subscales of the CTQ (emotional/physical/sexual abuse and emotional/physical neglect). Food addiction accounted for 32% to 51% of the variance in the relationship between each CTQ subscale and BMI. Conclusions These findings suggest that experiences of childhood trauma are associated with the development of overweight and obesity during early adulthood and up to half of this relationship can be attributed to food addiction, which is likely used as a maladaptive coping mechanism in response to trauma. Young adults living with overweight and obesity who report experiences of childhood trauma may benefit from the support of clinical and counselling psychologists to improve their understanding of the underlying psychosocial factors that influence their eating behaviours. Level of evidence Level V, cross-sectional analytic study.
