Title: Trends in the Prevalence of Hepatitis B Virus, Hepatitis C Virus, and HIV Infections in Iranian Patients with Hereditary Bleeding Disorders
Authors: Azar Gharoonpour, Saeideh Maleki, Hamid Sharifi, Seyedehsara Osia, Heidar Sharafi, Maryam Keshvari
Year: 2023
Venue: Pathogens
DOI: 10.3390/pathogens12040555
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141030

Abstract:
Background: Patients with hereditary bleeding disorders (HBDs) have always been vulnerable to transfusion-transmitted infections (TTIs) such as hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections due to being regular recipients of blood and blood products. This study aimed to detect the trends in the prevalence of HBV, HCV, and HIV infections by birthyear in Iranian patients with HBDs to show the efficacy of national interventions implemented to administrate control and to prevent these infections, i.e., blood safety, newborn HBV vaccination, and safe replacement treatments. Methods: In this retrospective study, the trends in the prevalence of hepatitis B core antibody (HBcAb), HCV antibody (HCV-Ab), and HIV antibody (HIV-Ab) in Iranian patients with HBDs born before 2012 were assessed using patients’ clinical archives. The determinants of HBV, HCV, and HIV infections were investigated in bivariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses. Results: Out of 1475 patients with HBDs, most were male (87.7%) and diagnosed with hemophilia A (52.1%) and severe bleeding disorder (63.7%). The prevalence of HBcAb, HCV-Ab, and confirmed HIV-Ab was 22.9%, 59.8%, and 1.2%, respectively. The trends in HBcAb, HCV-Ab, and HIV-Ab were all decreasing by birthyear and reached a stable level of 0% for patients with birthyears in 1999, 2000, and 1984, respectively. In multivariable analysis, birthyear was significantly associated with HBcAb prevalence. In the multivariable analysis, type of HBD; birthyear; bleeding severity; histories of receiving packed cells, fresh frozen plasma, and cryoprecipitate before 1996; and history of receiving factor concentrate before 1997 were highly associated with the prevalence of HCV-Ab. Moreover, in the bivariable analysis, birthyear and type of HBD were associated with HIV-Ab prevalence. Conclusion: This study demonstrated the decreasing trends in HBV, HCV, and HIV seroprevalence in Iranian patients with HBDs following preventive interventions such as HBV vaccination, blood safety measures, and the provision of safe replacement treatments.
