Title: Intrinsically disordered ectodomain modulates ion permeation through a metal transporter
Authors: Jana Aupič, Fabio Lapenta, Pavel Janoš, Alessandra Magistrato
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2214602119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889885

Abstract:
Significance To ensure cellular homeostasis, the permeability of channels and transporters must be finely tuned. Emerging evidence suggests intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) play an important role in the regulation of cross-membrane transport. However, due to difficulties in obtaining high-resolution structural information on intact membrane proteins, a mechanistic understanding of these processes is lacking. Here, we use advanced molecular dynamics simulations to investigate how the ID N-terminal ectodomain regulates copper import through copper transporter 1 (Ctr1). We show that lipid- and ligand-driven conformational changes in the N-terminal IDR modulate selectivity filter opening and the structure of transmembrane helices in Ctr1. Due to the frequency of IDRs in channels and transporters, the uncovered mode of regulation might be common to many other systems. The function of many channels and transporters is enriched by the conformational plasticity of intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Copper transporter 1 (Ctr1) is the main entry point for Cu(I) ions in eukaryotes and contains IDRs both at its N-terminal (Nterm) and C-terminal ends. The former delivers copper ions from the extracellular matrix to the selectivity filter in the Ctr1 lumen. However, the molecular mechanism of this process remains elusive due to Nterm’s disordered nature. Here, we combine advanced molecular dynamics simulations and circular dichroism experiments to show that Cu(I) ions and a lipidic environment drive the insertion of the Nterm into the Ctr1 selectivity filter, causing its opening. Through a lipid-aided conformational switch of one of the transmembrane helices, the conformational change of the selectivity filter propagates down to the cytosolic gate of Ctr1. Taken together, our results elucidate how conformational variability of IDRs modulates ion transport.
