Title: Obesity as a public health problem among adult women in rural Tanzania
Authors: Gudrun B Keding, John M Msuya, Brigitte L Maass, Michael B Krawinkel
Year: 2013
Venue: Global Health, Science and Practice
DOI: 10.9745/GHSP-D-13-00082
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4168587

Abstract:
Even in rural areas of Tanzania, an early stage of the nutrition transition is underway: 3 times as many women were overweight or obese than were undernourished. Overweight and obese women mainly follow a diet characterized by high consumption of bread and cakes (usually fried or baked in oil), sugar, and black tea. Even in rural areas of Tanzania, an early stage of the nutrition transition is underway: 3 times as many women were overweight or obese than were undernourished. Overweight and obese women mainly follow a diet characterized by high consumption of bread and cakes (usually fried or baked in oil), sugar, and black tea. ABSTRACT Background: For many developing countries, obesity and its sequelae have become a challenge of a magnitude similar to hunger and undernutrition. The main objective of this study was, therefore, to investigate the weight status of women in rural Tanzania with reference to season as well as the link between women's weight, food consumption, and attitudes toward obesity. Methods: Three cross-sectional surveys in 3 different seasons within 1 year interviewed the same 210 women, ages 17–45 years, from 3 rural districts of northeastern and central Tanzania. These surveys assessed body mass index (BMI), food intake, and dietary diversity through 24-hour recalls, women's attitudes toward obesity, vegetable production, and socioeconomic status. Results: Although 71% of the women had a normal BMI, 7% were underweight, 16% overweight, and 6% obese. The BMI was correlated with the Dietary Diversity Score (DDS), the Food Variety Score (FVS), with the consumption of foods from the food groups “bread/cakes,” “sugar,” and “tea,” and with the production of exotic vegetables. In a multiple regression model, FVS was directly associated with BMI. When asked to describe the typical characteristics of an obese person, women mentioned more negative than positive characteristics. Conclusion: The prevalence of overweight and obesity was 3 times higher than that of underweight. Apparently, even in rural areas of Tanzania, a nutrition transition is underway. No direct association was identified between vegetable consumption and BMI. Although this study did not assess behavioral factors, such behavioral factors as activity levels as well as attitudes need to be considered, even in rural settings, to address all facets of malnutrition.
