Title: Ligand diversity contributes to the full activation of the jasmonate pathway in Marchantia polymorpha
Authors: Sophie Kneeshaw, Gonzalo Soriano, Isabel Monte, Mats Hamberg, Ángel M. Zamarreño, Jose M. García-Mina, José Manuel Franco-Zorrilla, Nobuki Kato, Minoru Ueda, Ma Fernanda Rey-Stolle, Coral Barbas, Santiago Michavila, Selena Gimenez-Ibanez, Guillermo H. Jimenez-Aleman, Roberto Solano
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2202930119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9457472

Abstract:
Significance Plant survival in nature relies on activation of adaptive mechanisms, which largely depends on phytohormones, including jasmonates. Identification of bioactive jasmonates, their biosynthesis, and regulatory mechanisms is a fundamental scientific question. In vascular plants, jasmonates derive from polyunsaturated fatty acids containing 16- or 18-carbons. In contrast, bryophytes are also abundant in C20 and C22 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs), which are also found in animals. Here, we found that LCPUFAs are also a source of bioactive jasmonates. Using the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha (Mp), we discovered a ligand of Coronatine Insensitive 1 (MpCOI1) receptor, investigated its biosynthetic pathway, and showed that the discovered molecule cooperates with dinor-12-oxo-10,15( Z )-phytodienoic acid (dn-OPDA), the known MpCOI1 ligand, in the full activation of jasmonate responses in Marchantia . In plants, jasmonate signaling regulates a wide range of processes from growth and development to defense responses and thermotolerance. Jasmonates, such as jasmonic acid (JA), (+)-7- iso -jasmonoyl- l -isoleucine (JA-Ile), 12-oxo-10,15( Z )-phytodienoic acid (OPDA), and dinor-12-oxo-10,15( Z )-phytodienoic acid (dn-OPDA), are derived from C18 (18 Carbon atoms) and C16 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), which are found ubiquitously in the plant kingdom. Bryophytes are also rich in C20 and C22 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs), which are found only at low levels in some vascular plants but are abundant in organisms of other kingdoms, including animals. The existence of bioactive jasmonates derived from LCPUFAs is currently unknown. Here, we describe the identification of an OPDA-like molecule derived from a C20 fatty acid (FA) in the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha (Mp), which we term (5 Z ,8 Z )-10-(4-oxo-5-(( Z )-pent-2-en-1-yl)cyclopent-2-en-1-yl)deca-5,8-dienoic acid (C20-OPDA). This molecule accumulates upon wounding and, when applied exogenously, can activate known Coronatine Insensitive 1 (COI1) –dependent and –independent jasmonate responses. Furthermore, we identify a dn-OPDA–like molecule (Δ 4 -dn-OPDA) deriving from C20-OPDA and demonstrate it to be a ligand of the jasmonate coreceptor (MpCOI1–Mp Jasmonate-Zinc finger inflorescence meristem domain [MpJAZ]) in Marchantia . By analyzing mutants impaired in the production of LCPUFAs, we elucidate the major biosynthetic pathway of C20-OPDA and Δ 4 -dn-OPDA. Moreover, using a double mutant compromised in the production of both Δ 4 -dn-OPDA and dn-OPDA, we demonstrate the additive nature of these molecules in the activation of jasmonate responses. Taken together, our data identify a ligand of MpCOI1 and demonstrate LCPUFAs as a source of bioactive jasmonates that are essential to the immune response of M. polymorpha .
