Title: Experiences and Short-Term Outcomes of Kidney Transplantation During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic From a Medium-Volume Transplantation and Superregional Coronavirus Disease 2019 Treatment Center
Authors: Claudia Laessle, Johanna Schneider, Przemyslaw Pisarski, Stefan Fichtner-Feigl, Bernd Jänigen
Year: 2021
Venue: Transplantation Proceedings
DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2021.01.036
Paper ID: pmc_PMC7816559

Abstract:
Introduction The coronavirus, which first appeared in 2019, developed into a pandemic during 2020. It remains unclear to what extent the pandemic endangers the safety of kidney transplantation programs. In this study, we evaluated the short-term outcomes of our patients receiving a kidney transplant during the first phase and compared them with patients who received a kidney transplant immediately before the coronavirus pandemic. Materials and Methods Our retrospective study includes 34 kidney transplant recipients between October 1, 2019, and April 30, 2020. Nineteen patients from the phase immediately prior to the first coronavirus wave (pre-corona group), and 15 patients from the phase of the first coronavirus wave (corona group) were studied. We retrospectively evaluated demographic data, postoperative short-term outcomes and complications, immunosuppression regime, coronavirus infection status, and behavior during the first phase of the pandemic. Results There were no differences between the 2 groups regarding short-term outcomes and postoperative complications or in immunosuppressive medication. After the introduction of intensified hygienic conditions and routine swabs prior to transplantation, no nosocomial SARS-CoV-2 infections occurred. In the outpatient setting, none of the patients developed a SARS-CoV-2 infection. The majority of patients performed voluntary quarantine. Conclusions The short-term outcomes after kidney transplantation during the first phase of the coronavirus pandemic were comparable to pre-pandemic patients, and no SARS-CoV-2-associated death or transplant failure occurred in our small cohort. We considered patient compliance with hygiene and self-isolation measures very high. Nevertheless, in further phases of the pandemic, the continuation of the living kidney donation program must be critically evaluated.
