Title: Variation in Phenolic Compounds, Antioxidant and Antibacterial Activities of Extracts from Different Plant Organs of Meadowsweet ( Filipendula ulmaria (L.) Maxim.)
Authors: Tamara Savina, Valery Lisun, Pavel Feduraev, Liubov Skrypnik
Year: 2023
Venue: Molecules
DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083512
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140895

Abstract:
Meadowsweet ( Filipendula ulmaria (L.) Maxim.) has been widely used in the treatment of various diseases. The pharmacological properties of meadowsweet are derived from the presence of phenolic compounds of a diverse structure in sufficiently large quantities. The purpose of this study was to examine the vertical distribution of individual groups of phenolic compounds (total phenolics, flavonoids, hydroxycinnamic acids, catechins, proanthocyanidins, and tannins) and individual phenolic compounds in meadowsweet and to determine the antioxidant and antibacterial activity of extracts from various meadowsweet organs. It was found that the leaves, flowers, fruits, and roots of meadowsweet are characterized by a high total phenolics content (up to 65 mg g −1 ). A high content of flavonoids was determined in the upper leaves and flowers (117–167 mg g −1 ), with high contents of hydroxycinnamic acids in the upper leaves, flowers, and fruits (6.4–7.8 mg g –1 ); high contents of catechins and proanthocyanidins in the roots (45.1 and 3.4 mg g –1 , respectively); and high tannin content in the fruits (38.3 mg g –1 ). Analysis of extracts by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) showed that the qualitative and quantitative composition of individual phenolic compounds in various parts of the meadowsweet varied greatly. Among the flavonoids identified in meadowsweet, quercetin derivatives dominate, namely quercetin 3- O -rutinoside, quercetin 3-β- d -glucoside, and quercetin 4′- O -glucoside. Quercetin 4′- O -glucoside (spiraeoside) was found only in the flowers and fruits. Catechin was identified in the leaves and roots of meadowsweet. The distribution of phenolic acids across the plant was also uneven. In the upper leaves, a higher content of chlorogenic acid was determined, and in the lower leaves, a higher content of ellagic acid determined. In flowers and fruits, a higher contents of gallic, caftaric, ellagic, and salicylic acids were noted. Ellagic and salicylic acids were also dominant among phenolic acids in the roots. Based on the results of the analysis of antioxidant activity in terms of the ability to utilize the radicals of 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazine (DPPH) and 2,2′-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazolino-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and in terms of iron-reducing ability (FRAP), the upper leaves, flowers, and fruits of meadowsweet can be considered plant raw materials suitable to obtain extracts with high antioxidant activity. Extracts of plant fruits and flowers also showed high antibacterial activity against the bacteria Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
