Title: Antibacterial Activity and Anxiolytic Effect in Adult Zebrafish of Genus Lippia L. Species
Authors: Carla de Fatima Alves Nonato, Emerson Vinicius Silva de Melo, Cicera Janaine Camilo, Maria Kueirislene Amâncio Ferreira, Jane Eire Alencar de Meneses, Antonio Wlisses da Silva, Hélcio Silva dos Santos, Jaime Ribeiro-Filho, Joanda Paolla Raimundo e Silva, Josean Fechine Tavares, Irwin Rose Alencar de Menezes, Henrique Douglas Melo Coutinho, Grażyna Kowalska, Tomasz Baj, Radosław Kowalski, José Galberto Martins da Costa
Year: 2023
Venue: Plants
DOI: 10.3390/plants12081675
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142117

Abstract:
Species belonging to the genus Lippia are used worldwide as foods, beverages, and seasonings. Studies have demonstrated that these species have antioxidant, sedative, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic activities. This work aimed to evaluate the antibacterial activity and anxiolytic effect by different pathways of essential oils and ethanolic extracts of three species of Lippia ( Lippia alba , Lippia sidoides , and Lippia gracilis ). The ethanolic extracts were characterized by HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS n and their phenolics were quantified. The antibacterial activity was evaluated by determining the minimal inhibitory concentration and modulation of antibiotic activity, and toxic and anxiolytic effects were evaluated in the zebrafish model. The extracts showed compositions with a low ratio and shared compounds. L. alba and L. gracilis showed higher amounts of phenols and flavonoids, respectively. All extracts and essential oils presented antibacterial activity, especially those obtained from L. sidoides . On the other hand, L. alba extract presented the most significant antibiotic-enhancing effect. The samples were not toxic after 96 h of exposure, but showed an anxiolytic effect through modulation of the GABA A receptor, while L. alba extract acted via modulation of the 5-HT receptor. This new pharmacological evidence opens horizons for therapeutic approaches targeting anxiolytic and antibacterial therapies and food conservation using these species and their constituents.
