Title: Trochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures irreducible by closed reduction: a retrospective study
Authors: Youliang Hao, Zhishan Zhang, Fang Zhou, Hongquan Ji, Yun Tian, Yan Guo, Yang Lv, Zhongwei Yang, Guojin Hou
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Orthopaedic Surgery and Research
DOI: 10.1186/s13018-023-03635-6
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9969640

Abstract:
Aim To explore the preoperative radiographic features and reduction methods of irreducible trochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures of the femur and to compare the perioperative characteristics and prognoses of irreducible and reducible fractures. Methods The data of 1235 patients with femoral trochanteric fractures surgically treated in our hospital between January 2010 and January 2021 were retrospectively analyzed. According to the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria, 1163 cases of femoral trochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures were included in this study. Fractures in which good or acceptable reduction could not be reached by closed manipulation were defined as irreducible fractures. The preoperative radiographic features, fracture displacement patterns after closed manipulation and intraoperative reduction methods used to treat irreducible fractures were analyzed, and the perioperative characteristics and prognoses of irreducible fractures and reducible fractures were compared. Results There were 224 patients in the irreducible group and 939 patients in the reducible group. According to the radiographic features of fractures, irreducible fractures could be divided into four types: those with interlocking of the fracture, sagging of the femoral shaft, splitting of the lateral wall or medial wall, and comminution of the subtrochanteric area. Various kinds of reduction techniques were needed for different types. Conclusions The incidence of irreducible trochanteric fractures was 15.4%, while the incidence of irreducible subtrochanteric fractures was 84.6%. According to the radiographic features of fractures, they can be divided into four types. It is important to identify irreducible fractures preoperatively and make comprehensive plans to the greatest extent possible to shorten the operation time, reduce intraoperative blood loss, and reduce the incidence of complications.
