Title: Three-dimensional cell culture for the study of nasal polyps
Authors: Carolina Nunes França, André Luis Lacerda Bachi, Eduardo Macoto Kosugi, Rogério Pezato, Gláucia Maria Machado Santelli, Jônatas Bussador do Amaral
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2021.11.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801061

Abstract:
Highlights • Cells in a 3D dimensional environment are more similar to in vivo than a monolayer. • In 3D environment the cells remained differentiated for a longer time. • Nasal polyp spheroids can be used to understand CRSwNP. Objectives Three-dimensional (3D) cell cultures have many applications such as stem cell biology research, new drug discovery, cancer, and Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps (CRSwNP). This disease is characterized by a significant impact on quality of life and productivity. The diversity of factors that act in the progression of CRSwNP point to the creation of a cell culture model that allows the integration of different cell types with extracellular matrix. This work aimed to create a cell culture model in 3 dimensions (spheroids) for the study of Nasal Polyposis. Methods Nasal polyp tissue from patients diagnosed with CRSwNP was mechanically dissociated using tweezers and a scalpel and the solution containing cells and small aggregates of nasal polyps was transferred to a Petri dish containing 5 mL of culture medium at the concentration of 10 6 cells/mL. Results The spheroids were cultivated for 20 days, fixed and analyzed using confocal microscopy. In a 3D culture environment, the spheroids were formed both by clustering cells and from small tissue fragments. In the cultures analyzed, the ciliary beat was present from the dissociation of the cells up to 20 days in culture. Conclusion Our findings also point to these characteristics showing the environment generated in our study, the cells remained differentiated for a longer time and with ciliary beating. Thus, this work shows that nasal polyp-derived cells can be maintained in a 3D environment, enabling better strategies for understanding CRSwNP in situations similar to those found in vivo . Level of evidence Laboratory studies.
