Title: The beneficial effect of ginsenosides extracted by pulsed electric field against hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress in HEK-293 cells
Authors: Di Liu, Ting Zhang, Zhifei Chen, Ying Wang, Shuang Ma, Jiyun Liu, Jingbo Liu
Year: 2017
Venue: Journal of Ginseng Research
DOI: 10.1016/j.jgr.2016.02.007
Paper ID: pmc_PMC5386122

Abstract:
Background Ginsenosides are the main pharmacological components of Panax ginseng root, which are thought to be primarily responsible for the suppressing effect on oxidative stress. Methods 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity and oxygen radical absorption capacity were applied to evaluate the antioxidant activities of the ginsenosides. Human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells were incubated with ginsenosides extracted by pulsed electric field (PEF) and solvent cold soak extraction (SCSE) for 24 h and then the injury was induced by 40μM H 2 O 2 . The cell viability and surface morphology of HEK-293 cells were studied using MTS assay and scanning electron microscopy, respectively. Dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein diacetate fluorescent probe assay was used to measure the level of intracellular reactive oxygen species. The intracellular antioxidant activities of ginsenosides were evaluated by cellular antioxidant activity assay in HepG2 cells. Results The PEF extracts displayed the higher 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity and stronger oxygen radical absorption capacity (with an oxygen radical absorption capacity value of 14.48 ± 4.04μM TE per μg/mL). The HEK-293 cell model also suggested that the protective effect of PEF extracts was dose-dependently greater than SCSE extracts. Dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein diacetate assay further proved that PEF extracts are more active (8% higher than SCSE extracts) in reducing intracellular reactive oxygen species accumulation. In addition, scanning electron microscopy images showed that the HEK-293 cells, which were treated with PEF extracts, maintained more intact surface morphology. Cellular antioxidant activity values indicated that ginsenosides extracted by PEF had stronger cellular antioxidant activity than SCSE ginsenosides extracts. Conclusion The present study demonstrated the antioxidative effect of ginsenosides extracted by PEF in vitro . Furthermore, rather than SCSE, PEF may be more useful as an alternative extraction technique for the extraction of ginsenosides with enhanced antioxidant activity.
