Title: Surface coating by mechanofusion modulates bulk charging pathways and battery performance of Ni-rich layered cathodes
Authors: Dong Hou, Jiaxiu Han, Chenxi Geng, Zhengrui Xu, Modhi M. AlMarzooqi, Jin Zhang, Zhijie Yang, Jungki Min, Xianghui Xiao, Olaf Borkiewicz, Kamila Wiaderek, Yijin Liu, Kejie Zhao, Feng Lin
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2212802119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9894257

Abstract:
Significance Surface coating is considered an effective way to mitigate performance degradation for polycrystalline cathodes in batteries. However, the synergic effect between surface modification, bulk charge distribution, and particle microstructural evolution has not been systematically studied. Moreover, many coating methods are practically expensive, require intermediate processing steps, and have high standards for precursors, etc. In this work, we use a facile method to prepare the coated polycrystalline cathode particles and then investigate the underlying mechanisms responsible for performance improvement using a combination of probes, e.g., nano-tomography, spectroscopic imaging, in situ diffraction, and finite element analysis. We believe that the revealed synergic effect by this study is a general feature that plays a vital role for the surface-coated polycrystalline cathodes in rechargeable batteries. Ni-rich layered oxides as high-capacity battery cathodes suffer from degradation at high voltages. We utilize a dry surface modification method, mechanofusion (MF), to achieve enhanced battery stability. The simplicity, high yield, and flexibility make it cost-effective and highly attractive for processing at the industrial scale. The underlying mechanisms responsible for performance improvement are unveiled by a systematic study combining multiple probes, e.g., 3D nano-tomography, spectroscopic imaging, in situ synchrotron diffraction, and finite element analysis (FEA). MF affects the bulk crystallography by introducing partially disordered structure, microstrain, and local lattice variation. Furthermore, the crack initiation and propagation pattern during delithiation are regulated and the overall mechanical fracture is reduced after such surface coating. We validate that MF can alter the bulk charging pathways. Such a synergic effect between surface modification and bulk charge distribution is fundamentally important for designing next-generation battery cathode materials.
