Title: Fatigue of red blood cells under periodic squeezes in ECMO
Authors: Yunfan Pan, Yan Li, Yongjian Li, Jiang Li, Haosheng Chen
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2210819119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9894116

Abstract:
Significance Over the course of COVID-19 pandemic, the use of ECMO has increased significantly. However, we find hemolysis happens gradually in ECMO, where RBCs experience periodic squeezes with low stress but high frequency. Such periodic squeezes lead to a progressive fatigue of RBCs with morphology changes before lysis. Deformation and recovery of RBCs under each squeeze are accompanied by ATP release and recovery. High squeeze frequency prevents the recovery of ATP, which results in the depletion of ATP and the consequent membrane-skeleton detachment for morphology change. This work establishes an empirical model for the fatigue of RBCs and reveals a different way of the hemolysis dominated by squeeze frequency, which brings a new insight into mechanism of hemolysis. Hemolysis usually happens instantly when red blood cells (RBCs) rupture under a high shear stress. However, it is also found to happen gradually in the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) under low but periodic squeezes. In particular, the gradual hemolysis is accompanied by a progressive change in morphology of RBCs. In this work, the gradual hemolysis is studied in a microfluidic device with arrays of narrow gaps the same as the constructions in ECMO. RBCs are seen to deform periodically when they flow through the narrow gaps, which causes the release of adenosine-triphosphate (ATP) from RBCs. The reduced ATP level in the cells leads to the fatigue of RBCs with the progressive changes in morphology and the gradual loss of deformability. An empirical model for the fatigue of RBCs is established under the periodic squeezes with controlled deformation, and it reveals a different way of the hemolysis that is dominated by the squeeze frequency. This finding brings a new insight into the mechanism of hemolysis, and it helps to improve the design of circulatory support devices.
