Title: Clinical use of Plasma Protein from Platelet in Degenerative Joint Disease: A Prospective Study
Authors: I Shebin Christin, Harisivanandan Muthukannan, Soundararajan Karuppanan, Sheel Sunil Chhajed, Srinivasa Reddy Suggu, Somejoy Moitra
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Orthopaedic Case Reports
DOI: 10.13107/jocr.2022.v12.i11.3434
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10066673

Abstract:
Introduction: Plasma rich in protein derived from platelets also known as platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is a recent science being used in many fields of medicine including cosmetic and musculoskeletal treatment. It has a very good ability to promote healing and decrease pain when added to certain treatment protocols. Being a simple and minimally invasive method of treatment, it is over-looked as a treatment option for the early osteoarthritis (OA) of knee joint. Well-designed randomized controlled studies and research are needed to measure outcomes, durability of effect while being cost effective. Aim of the Research Study: The aim of this study was to prove the use of PRP and its outcome in the clinical treatment of arthritic joint diseases of knee, progression of disease in people treated for early stage OA, and functional outcome of PRP injection in knee degenerative diseases. Materials and Methods: This study was study period-6 months, sample size-50, sample type-patient, and functional outcome assessed using knee osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS). Methodology of Research Work: This study was aimed to prospectively quantify the effect of treatment with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injection in patients with degenerative joint diseases. Degenerative joint disease treated using PRP injections with an average study period of 6 months was analyzed according to measure of pain at baseline and post-treatment using KOOS. Data Analysis: Collected data will be analyzed by SPSS Software Version 19. Primary Objective: PRP injections aim to relieve pain and to improve functional status of the patient. Results: PRP is effective with treatment for degenerative knee arthritis. The patients found excellent relief in pain and mobility. The range of movement and KOOS score was found to be improved with P < 0.001.
