Title: Implementing an exercise oncology model to reach rural and remote individuals living with and beyond cancer: a hybrid effectiveness-implementation protocol for project EXCEL (EXercise for Cancer to Enhance Living Well)
Authors: Nicole Culos-Reed, Chad W Wagoner, Julianna Dreger, Margaret L McNeely, Melanie Keats, Daniel Santa Mina, Colleen Cuthbert, Lauren C Capozzi, George J Francis, Guanmin Chen, Manuel Ester, Emma McLaughlin, Max Eisele, Daniel Sibley, Jodi Langley, Joy Chiekwe, Thomas Christensen, Shaneel Pathak
Year: 2022
Venue: BMJ Open
DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063953
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9806055

Abstract:
Introduction Individuals living with and beyond cancer from rural and remote areas lack accessibility to supportive cancer care resources compared with those in urban areas. Exercise is an evidence-based intervention that is a safe and effective supportive cancer care resource, improving physical fitness and function, well-being and quality of life. Thus, it is imperative that exercise oncology programs are accessible for all individuals living with cancer, regardless of geographical location. To improve accessibility to exercise oncology programs, we have designed the EXercise for Cancer to Enhance Living Well (EXCEL) study. Methods and analysis EXCEL is a hybrid effectiveness-implementation study. Exercise-based oncology knowledge from clinical exercise physiologists supports healthcare professionals and community-based qualified exercise professionals, facilitating exercise oncology education, referrals and programming. Recruitment began in September 2020 and will continue for 5 years with the goal to enroll ~1500 individuals from rural and remote areas. All tumour groups are eligible, and participants must be 18 years or older. Participants take part in a 12-week multimodal progressive exercise intervention currently being delivered online. The reach, effectiveness, adoption, implementation, and maintenance (RE-AIM) framework is used to determine the impact of EXCEL at participant and institutional levels. Physical activity, functional fitness and patient-reported outcomes are assessed at baseline and 12-week time points of the EXCEL exercise intervention. Ethics and dissemination The study was approved by the Health Research Ethics Board of Alberta. Our team will disseminate EXCEL information through quarterly newsletters to stakeholders, including participants, qualified exercise professionals, healthcare professionals and community networks. Ongoing outreach includes community presentations (eg, support groups, fitness companies) that provide study updates and exercise resources. Our team will publish manuscripts and present at conferences on EXCEL’s ongoing implementation efforts across the 5-year study. Trial registration number NCT04478851 .
