Title: Differentiated roles of Lifshitz transition on thermodynamics and superconductivity in La 2- x Sr x CuO 4
Authors: Yong Zhong, Zhuoyu Chen, Su-Di Chen, Ke-Jun Xu, Makoto Hashimoto, Yu He, Shin-ichi Uchida, Donghui Lu, Sung-Kwan Mo, Zhi-Xun Shen
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2204630119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371668

Abstract:
Significance The existence of quantum criticality in cuprate superconductor has been an unsolved puzzle for over 3 decades. Recent thermodynamic measurements display a heat capacity peak in the vicinity of the putative quantum critical point in La-based cuprates. We systematically study the three-dimensional electronic structure of La 2- x Sr x CuO 4 thin film in a wide doping range, to elucidate the dominant role of Lifshitz transition on the specific heat anomaly. Furthermore, a canonical d -wave pairing symmetry across the Lifshitz transition excludes the scenario of high-temperature superconductivity being associated with van Hove singularity. The effect of Lifshitz transition on thermodynamics and superconductivity in hole-doped cuprates has been heavily debated but remains an open question. In particular, an observed peak of electronic specific heat is proposed to originate from fluctuations of a putative quantum critical point p* (e.g., the termination of pseudogap at zero temperature), which is close to but distinguishable from the Lifshitz transition in overdoped La-based cuprates where the Fermi surface transforms from hole-like to electron-like. Here we report an in situ angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy study of three-dimensional Fermi surfaces in La 2- x Sr x CuO 4 thin films ( x = 0.06 to 0.35). With accurate k z dispersion quantification, the said Lifshitz transition is determined to happen within a finite range around x = 0.21. Normal state electronic specific heat, calculated from spectroscopy-derived band parameters, reveals a doping-dependent profile with a maximum at x = 0.21 that agrees with previous thermodynamic microcalorimetry measurements. The account of the specific heat maximum by underlying band structures excludes the need for additionally dominant contribution from the quantum fluctuations at p* . A d -wave superconducting gap smoothly across the Lifshitz transition demonstrates the insensitivity of superconductivity to the dramatic density of states enhancement.
