Title: Distinct immune microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma in never-smokers from smokers
Authors: Wenxin Luo, Zhen Zeng, Yang Jin, Lan Yang, Ting Fan, Zhoufeng Wang, Yitong Pan, Ying Yang, Menglin Yao, Yangqian Li, Xue Xiao, Gang Wang, Chengdi Wang, Shuai Chang, Guowei Che, Li Zhang, Yalun Li, Yong Peng, Weimin Li
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101078
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313938

Abstract:
Summary Lung cancer in never-smokers (LCINS) presents clinicopathological and molecular features distinct from that in smokers. Tumor microenvironment (TME) plays important roles in cancer progression and therapeutic response. To decipher the difference in TME between never-smoker and smoker lung cancers, we conduct single-cell RNA sequencing on 165,753 cells from 22 treatment-naive lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients. We find that the dysfunction of alveolar cells induced by cigarette smoking contributes more to the aggressiveness of smoker LUADs, while the immunosuppressive microenvironment exerts more effects on never-smoker LUADs’ aggressiveness. Moreover, the SPP1 hi pro macrophage is identified to be another independent source of monocyte-derived macrophage. Importantly, higher expression of immune checkpoint CD47 and lower expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-I in cancer cells of never-smoker LUADs imply that CD47 may be a better immunotherapy target for LCINS. Therefore, this study reveals the difference of tumorigenesis between never-smoker and smoker LUADs and provides a potential immunotherapy strategy for LCINS. Graphical abstract Highlights • Cancer cells of never-smoker LUADs are less aggressive than smoker ones • Tumor microenvironment of never-smoker LUADs exerts more immunosuppressive properties • Cancer cells of never-smoker LUADs display higher expression of CD47 • SPP1 hi pro cells may be another independent source of monocyte-derived macrophages Luo et al. employ single-cell RNA sequencing to identify more immunosuppressive microenvironment and higher expression of the immune checkpoint CD47 in never-smoker lung adenocarcinomas. These findings uncover the difference of tumorigenesis between never-smoker and smoker lung adenocarcinomas and provide a potential immunotherapy strategy for the former.
