Title: Consumer perception of marbling and beef quality during purchase and consumer preferences for degree of doneness
Authors: Hakan Benli, Duygu Gecgel Yildiz
Year: 2023
Venue: Animal Bioscience
DOI: 10.5713/ab.23.0003
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10330973

Abstract:
Objective Understanding consumer perception of meat quality in developing countries is an important issue since consumer perception of quality could be highly variable. In the current study, consumers’ purchasing preferences affected by marbling and perception of quality were evaluated in a survey study. Furthermore, consumers’ preferences for degree of doneness were investigated using both survey and consumer panel studies. Methods The study was carried out in two phases. Firstly, a survey was conducted in Adana Province, Turkey to collect data related to the attributes affecting consumers’ meat purchase decision and consumers’ degree of doneness preferences. In the second phase, boneless ribeye was used to investigate consumers’ degree of doneness preferences in a consumer panel. In addition, proximate analyses of the samples were conducted. Results The survey study using pictures of marbling illustrations indicated that higher degrees of marbling might be considered too fatty to be purchased by consumers. Consumers’ perceptions regarding the relationship between marbling and beef quality further indicated that marbling might not be acknowledged as a cue of a higher quality meat. Nevertheless, the results of the importance of some attributes related to intrinsic and extrinsic quality cues showed that consumers were looking for the cues that indicated not only quality but also safety of the meat during meat purchase. The results of both survey and consumer panel studies revealed that consumers might prefer higher degrees of doneness while consuming meat since a majority of the consumers’ preference of degree of doneness was at least well done. Conclusion This study revealed that consumer purchasing preferences might vary between countries regarding marbling and perception of quality. Furthermore, higher degrees of doneness could be the preference of these consumers. Thus, further studies are needed to increase consumer satisfaction in these countries.
