Title: Evaluation of the efficacy of Lactobacillus -containing feminine hygiene products on vaginal microbiome and genitourinary symptoms in pre- and postmenopausal women: A pilot randomized controlled trial
Authors: Remi Yoshikata, Michiko Yamaguchi, Yuri Mase, Ayano Tatsuyuki, Khin Zay Yar Myint, Hiroaki Ohta
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0270242
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803311

Abstract:
As estrogen level decreases with aging, the vaginal mucosa gets thinner, and collagen amount decreases. In addition, the population of Lactobacillus in the vagina declines, increasing the risk of atrophic vaginitis, bacterial vaginosis, and genitourinary symptoms in the postmenopausal women. In this study, we evaluated the effects of Lactobacillus -containing feminine hygiene products on vaginal microbiome and genitourinary symptoms in pre- and postmenopausal women. This was a pilot randomized controlled trial in 35 premenopausal and 35 postmenopausal healthy women. For 4 weeks, treatment 1 group (14 premenopausal and 16 postmenopausal women) used the Lactobacillus-containing feminine soap and cream, and treatment 2 group (15 premenopausal and 14 postmenopausal women) used Lactobacillus-containing feminine gel in addition to soap and cream. The remaining 6 premenopausal and 5 postmenopausal women served as controls without using any products. We then compared the changes in the vaginal microbiota, genitourinary symptoms, and other related biomarkers after completion of treatment. Vaginal pH and pathogenic flora were reduced in both treatment groups compared to control group, which was more significant in the treatment 2 group of postmenopausal women. Genitourinary symptoms significantly improved in 60% of premenopausal women in treatment 1 group and 81.3% of postmenopausal women in treatment 2 group, compared to control group (0%, p = 0.043 and p<0.01 respectively). Overactive bladder symptom scores were significantly improved after using the products in eleven out of twelve postmenopausal women suspected of having overactive bladder. The use of Lactobacillus-containing feminine products was associated with improved vaginal ecosystem and urogenital health compared to control group, especially in those women using feminine gel.
