Title: Cholesterol-rich domain formation mediated by ZO proteins is essential for tight junction formation
Authors: Kenta Shigetomi, Yumiko Ono, Kenji Matsuzawa, Junichi Ikenouchi
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2217561120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974431

Abstract:
Significance Tight junctions (TJs) are membrane structures formed by the polymerization of the palmitoylated membrane protein claudin. It has been canonically thought that claudin polymerization is driven by the protein–protein interaction with the scaffolding proteins, ZO. In this study, we reveal that the ZO proteins’ contribution to TJ formation is not limited to their scaffolding function; just as importantly, they function as an organizer of cholesterol-rich membrane domains in the vicinity of apical junctional complexes (AJCs). This enables claudins to accumulate through the affinity between their palmitoylated moiety and the cholesterol-enriched membrane. Tight junctions (TJs) are cell-adhesion structures responsible for the epithelial barrier. We reported that accumulation of cholesterol at the apical junctions is required for TJ formation [K. Shigetomi, Y. Ono, T. Inai, J. Ikenouchi, J. Cell Biol. 217 , 2373–2381 (2018)]. However, it is unclear how cholesterol accumulates and informs TJ formation—and whether cholesterol enrichment precedes or follows the assembly of claudins in the first place. Here, we established an epithelial cell line (claudin-null cells) that lacks TJs by knocking out claudins. Despite the lack of TJs, cholesterol normally accumulated in the vicinity of the apical junctions. Assembly of claudins at TJs is thought to require binding to zonula occludens (ZO) proteins; however, a claudin mutant that cannot bind to ZO proteins still formed TJ strands. ZO proteins were however necessary for cholesterol accumulation at the apical junctions through their effect on the junctional actomyosin cytoskeleton. We propose that ZO proteins not only function as scaffolds for claudins but also promote TJ formation of cholesterol-rich membrane domains at apical junctions.
