Title: Use of Medical Services and Medicines Attributable to Diabetes in Sub-Saharan Africa
Authors: Jonathan Betz Brown, Kaushik Ramaiya, Stéphane Besançon, Paul Rheeder, Clarisse Mapa Tassou, Jean-Claude Mbanya, Katarzyna Kissimova-Skarbek, Eva Wangechi Njenga, Eva Wangui Muchemi, Harrison Kiambuthi Wanjiru, Erin Schneider
Year: 2014
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106716
Paper ID: pmc_PMC4162573

Abstract:
Background Although the large majority of persons with diabetes and other non-communicable diseases (NCDs) lives and dies in low- and middle-income countries, the prevention and treatment of diabetes and other NCDs is widely neglected in these areas. A contributing reason may be that, unlike the impacts of acute and communicable diseases, the demands on resources imposed by diabetes is not superficially obvious, and studies capable of detecting these impacts have not be done. Methods To ascertain recent use of medical services and medicines and other information about the impact of ill-health, we in 2008–2009 conducted structured, personal interviews with 1,780 persons with diagnosed diabetes (DMs) and 1,770 matched comparison subjects (MCs) without diabetes in Cameroon, Mali, Tanzania and South Africa. We sampled DMs from diabetes registries and, in Cameroon and South Africa, from attendees at outpatient diabetes clinics. To recruit MCs, we asked subjects with diabetes to identify five persons living nearest to them who were of the same sex and approximate age. We estimated diabetes impact on medical services use by calculating ratios and differences between DMs and MCs, testing for statistical significance using two-stage multivariable hurdle models. Findings DMs consumed 12.95 times more days of inpatient treatment, 7.54 times more outpatient visits, and 5.61 times more medications than MCs (all p<0.001). DMs used an estimated 3.44 inpatient days per person per year, made 10.72 outpatient visits per person per year (excluding traditional healers), and were taking an average of 2.49 prescribed medicines when interviewed. Conclusions In Sub-Saharan Africa, the relative incremental use of medical care and medicines associated with diagnosed diabetes is much greater than in industrialized countries and in China. Published calculations of the health-system impact of diabetes in Africa are dramatic underestimates. Although non-communicable diseases like diabetes are commonly thought to be minor problems for health systems and patients in Africa, our data demonstrate the opposite.
