Title: Comparative Physiological and Transcriptomic Mechanisms of Defoliation in Cotton in Response to Thidiazuron versus Ethephon
Authors: Baopeng Liao, Fangjun Li, Fei Yi, Mingwei Du, Xiaoli Tian, Zhaohu Li
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Molecular Sciences
DOI: 10.3390/ijms24087590
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10143250

Abstract:
Thidiazuron (TDZ) is a widely used chemical defoliant in cotton and can stimulate the production of ethylene in leaves, which is believed to be the key factor in inducing leaf abscission. Ethephon (Eth) can also stimulate ethylene production in leaves, but it is less effective in promoting leaf shedding. In this study, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) and RNA-seq were used to determine specific changes at hormonal levels as well as transcriptomic mechanisms induced by TDZ compared with Eth. The TDZ significantly reduced the levels of auxin and cytokinin in cotton leaves, but no considerable changes were observed for Eth. In addition, TDZ specifically increased the levels of brassinosteroids and jasmonic acid in the leaves. A total of 13 764 differentially expressed genes that specifically responded to TDZ were identified by RNA-seq. The analysis of KEGG functional categories suggested that the synthesis, metabolism, and signal transduction of auxin, cytokinin, and brassinosteroid were all involved in the TDZ-induced abscission of cotton leaves. Eight auxin transport genes ( GhPIN1-c_D , GhPIN3_D , GhPIN8_A , GhABCB19-b_A , GhABCB19-b_D , GhABCB2-b_D , GhLAX6_A , and GhLAX7_D ) specifically responded to TDZ. The pro35S::GhPIN3a::YFP transgenic plants showed lower defoliation than the wild type treated with TDZ, and YFP fluorescence in leaves was almost extinguished after treatment with TDZ rather than Eth. This provides direct evidence that GhPIN3a is involved in the leaf abscission induced by TDZ. We found that 959 transcription factors (TFs) specifically responded to TDZ, and a co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) showed five hub TFs ( GhNAC72 , GhWRKY51 , GhWRKY70 , GhWRKY50 , and GhHSF24 ) during chemical defoliation with TDZ. Our work sheds light on the molecular basis of TDZ-induced leaf abscission in cotton.
