Title: Palatability, glycemic, and insulinemic responses to various carbohydrate formulations: Alternatives for the diagnosis of insulin dysregulation in horses?
Authors: Tobias Warnken, Claudia Schaub, Julien Delarocque, Florian Frers, Karsten Feige, Johanna Sonntag, Dania Birte Reiche
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine
DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16614
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9889704

Abstract:
Abstract Background Oral glycemic challenge (GC) tests are recommended for diagnosis of insulin dysregulation (ID). Various protocols are used, but all have limitations in terms of palatability, ease of use, variable composition, geographic availability, or some combination of these. Hypothesis/Objective To evaluate newly developed formulations with defined carbohydrate composition for use as oral GCs. Animals Thirty‐four horses and ponies in various metabolic states. Methods Our objectives were carried out in 2 separate cross‐over experiments. First, the palatability and acceptance of various GCs (2 syrups, 1 granulate) offered for free intake were compared to glucose mixed in a chaff‐based diet. Subsequently, syrups were administered by syringe and compared to an oral glucose test using naso‐gastric tubing (tube OGT) to investigate the glycemic and insulinemic responses. Second, these variables were compared in the best performing GC‐formulations (granulate further optimized to pelleted formulation and 1 syrup) and a tube OGT. All GCs were administered with equivalent amounts of 0.5 g glycemic carbohydrates per kg body weight. Results Only the GC pellets were consumed completely by all horses (consumption time 5 ± 2 min). When administered by syringe, the GC syrup also was well accepted. The insulin concentrations at 120 min correlated significantly between tube OGT and GC pellets ( r = .717; P < .001) or GC syrup ( r = .913; P < .001). The new GC syrup and GC pellets discriminate between healthy and ID horses. Conclusions and Clinical Significance The GC pellets (DysChEq)™ and GC syrup can be used as palatable and well‐accepted oral GC tests for assessment of ID in horses.
