Title: Multispectral Imaging for Skin Diseases Assessment—State of the Art and Perspectives
Authors: Mihaela-Andreea Ilișanu, Florica Moldoveanu, Alin Moldoveanu
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23083888
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140977

Abstract:
Skin optical inspection is an imperative procedure for a suspicious dermal lesion since very early skin cancer detection can guarantee total recovery. Dermoscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy, optical coherence tomography, multispectral imaging, multiphoton laser imaging, and 3D topography are the most outstanding optical techniques implemented for skin examination. The accuracy of dermatological diagnoses attained by each of those methods is still debatable, and only dermoscopy is frequently used by all dermatologists. Therefore, a comprehensive method for skin analysis has not yet been established. Multispectral imaging (MSI) is based on light–tissue interaction properties due to radiation wavelength variation. An MSI device collects the reflected radiation after illumination of the lesion with light of different wavelengths and provides a set of spectral images. The concentration maps of the main light-absorbing molecules in the skin, the chromophores, can be retrieved using the intensity values from those images, sometimes even for deeper-located tissues, due to interaction with near-infrared light. Recent studies have shown that portable and cost-efficient MSI systems can be used for extracting skin lesion characteristics useful for early melanoma diagnoses. This review aims to describe the efforts that have been made to develop MSI systems for skin lesions evaluation in the last decade. We examined the hardware characteristics of the produced devices and identified the typical structure of an MSI device for dermatology. The analyzed prototypes showed the possibility of improving the specificity of classification between the melanoma and benign nevi. Currently, however, they are rather adjuvants tools for skin lesion assessment, and efforts are needed towards a fully fledged diagnostic MSI device.
