Title: Retrospective Analysis of the Effectiveness of Oral Semaglutide in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Its Effect on Cardiometabolic Parameters in Japanese Clinical Settings
Authors: Hodaka Yamada, Masashi Yoshida, Shunsuke Funazaki, Jun Morimoto, Shiori Tonezawa, Asuka Takahashi, Shuichi Nagashima, Kimura Masahiko, Otsuka Kiyoshi, Kazuo Hara
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Cardiovascular Development and Disease
DOI: 10.3390/jcdd10040176
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141082

Abstract:
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) have a more potent glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c)-lowering effect than existing therapies and are widely used for treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Once-daily oral semaglutide is the world’s first oral GLP-1RA. This study aimed to provide real-world data on oral semaglutide in Japanese patients with T2DM and its effects on cardiometabolic parameters. This was a single-center retrospective observational study. We examined changes in HbA1c and body weight (BW) and the rate of achieving HbA1c < 7% after 6 months of oral semaglutide treatment in Japanese patients with T2DM. Furthermore, we examined differences in the efficacy of oral semaglutide with multiple patient backgrounds. A total of 88 patients were included in this study. Overall, the mean (standard error of the mean) HbA1c at 6 months decreased by −1.24% (0.20%) from baseline, and BW at 6 months ( n = 85) also decreased by −1.44 kg (0.26 kg) from baseline. The percentage of patients who achieved HbA1c < 7% changed significantly from 14% at baseline to 48%. HbA1c decreased from baseline regardless of age, sex, body mass index, chronic kidney disease, or diabetes duration. Additionally, alanine aminotransferase, total cholesterol, triglyceride, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were significantly reduced from baseline. Oral semaglutide may be an effective option for the intensification of therapy in Japanese patients with T2DM who have inadequate glycemic control with existing therapy. It may also reduce BW and improve cardiometabolic parameters.
