Title: A Family-Based Collaborative Care Model for Treatment of Depressive and Anxiety Symptoms in Perinatal Women: Results From a Pilot Study
Authors: Fallon Cluxton-Keller, Ardis Olson
Year: 2023
Venue: JMIR Pediatrics and Parenting
DOI: 10.2196/45616
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141279

Abstract:
Background Untreated perinatal depression and anxiety can have detrimental consequences on family function. Logistical barriers prevent many perinatal women from accessing treatment, and these barriers are compounded for women residing in rural areas. This paper describes a Family-Based Collaborative Care Model (FBCCM) that is designed to bypass barriers to increase access to care for depressed and anxious perinatal women in rural regions of the United States. The FBCCM includes the following two components: (1) a 10-session video-delivered family therapy treatment for perinatal depression and anxiety and (2) a video-delivered infant care provider training on addressing the parenting needs of depressed and anxious mothers. Objective This paper describes the feasibility of implementing the FBCCM with families and infant care providers. Findings are presented on the preliminary effectiveness of the video-delivered family therapy treatment in reducing maternal depressive and anxiety symptoms, and family conflict. Methods This pilot study was carried out using an implementation-effectiveness hybrid trial design without a comparison group. Changes in maternal depressive symptoms, maternal anxiety symptoms, and family conflict were measured at posttreatment, 3 months, and 6 months later. Results On average, mothers (n=24) attended 9.79 (SD 1.02) sessions. On average, their family members (n=24) attended 9.42 (SD 1.28) sessions. A total of 31 infant care providers attended the training on addressing the parenting needs of depressed and anxious mothers. Mothers reported a significant reduction in depressive symptoms ( P <.001) and anxiety symptoms ( P <.001) from baseline to the 6-month follow-up. Mothers reported a significant reduction in conflict ( P <.001), and their family members also reported a significant reduction in conflict ( P =.007) from baseline to the 6-month follow-up. Conclusions The findings from this study provide support for the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of the FBCCM. The findings will be used to inform a larger study of the FBCCM.
