Title: Exploring the associations between discrimination, coping, skin tone, and the psychosocial health of young adults of color
Authors: Alaysia M. Brown, Antoinette M. Landor, Katharine H. Zeiders, Evelyn D. Sarsar
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2119587119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9459310

Abstract:
Significance The current study helps clarify who may be at risk for poorer psychosocial health when encountering discrimination and in what circumstances. Experiencing higher levels of discrimination (between-person) and more discrimination than usual on a given week (within-person) were both associated with poorer psychosocial well-being; however, the emotional and psychological sequalae of these experiences differed. Interrelations among within-person and between-person discrimination, skin tone, and coping indicate that individuals may experience the effects of discrimination differently based on their skin tone and suggest that the efficacy of race-related coping may be influenced by the immediate context (the nature of discrimination encountered) and individual sociodemographic characteristics (skin tone). Together, findings illustrate the difficulty individuals of color may face when coping with discrimination. Although valuable strides have been made in linking racial and ethnic discrimination to health outcomes, scholars have primarily used between-person methodological approaches, which assess the implications of reporting high or low mean levels of discrimination. Alternatively, within-person approaches assess the implications of intraindividual variation, or acute changes, in an individual’s exposure to discrimination. These approaches pose two fundamentally different questions about the association between discrimination and health, and empirical work that disaggregates these effects remains scarce. Scholars have also called for research exploring whether sociocultural factors—such as race-related coping and skin tone—contour these associations. To address gaps in extant literature, the current study examined 1) how an individual’s average level of exposure to discrimination (between-person) and weekly fluctuations in these encounters (within-person) relate to psychosocial health and 2) whether race-related coping (confrontational and passive coping) and skin tone moderate these associations. Analyses were conducted using weekly diary data from African American and Latinx young adults ( n = 140). Findings indicated that reporting higher mean levels of exposure to discrimination and encountering more discrimination than usual on a given week were both associated with poorer psychosocial health. Results also suggest that the efficacy of young adults’ coping mechanisms may depend on their skin tone and the nature of the discriminatory events encountered.
