Title: In-the-Wild Affect Analysis of Children with ASD Using Heart Rate
Authors: Kamran Ali, Sachin Shah, Charles E. Hughes
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23146572
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10385085

Abstract:
Recognizing the affective state of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in real-world settings poses challenges due to the varying head poses, illumination levels, occlusion and a lack of datasets annotated with emotions in in-the-wild scenarios. Understanding the emotional state of children with ASD is crucial for providing personalized interventions and support. Existing methods often rely on controlled lab environments, limiting their applicability to real-world scenarios. Hence, a framework that enables the recognition of affective states in children with ASD in uncontrolled settings is needed. This paper presents a framework for recognizing the affective state of children with ASD in an in-the-wild setting using heart rate (HR) information. More specifically, an algorithm is developed that can classify a participant’s emotion as positive, negative, or neutral by analyzing the heart rate signal acquired from a smartwatch. The heart rate data are obtained in real time using a smartwatch application while the child learns to code a robot and interacts with an avatar. The avatar assists the child in developing communication skills and programming the robot. In this paper, we also present a semi-automated annotation technique based on facial expression recognition for the heart rate data. The HR signal is analyzed to extract features that capture the emotional state of the child. Additionally, in this paper, the performance of a raw HR-signal-based emotion classification algorithm is compared with a classification approach based on features extracted from HR signals using discrete wavelet transform (DWT). The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves comparable performance to state-of-the-art HR-based emotion recognition techniques, despite being conducted in an uncontrolled setting rather than a controlled lab environment. The framework presented in this paper contributes to the real-world affect analysis of children with ASD using HR information. By enabling emotion recognition in uncontrolled settings, this approach has the potential to improve the monitoring and understanding of the emotional well-being of children with ASD in their daily lives.
