Title: Radiographic features in 2D imaging as predictors for justified CBCT examinations of canine-induced root resorption
Authors: Amanda K.H. Andresen, Malin V. Jonsson, Gerhard Sulo, Dorina S. Thelen, Xie-Qi Shi
Year: 2022
Venue: Dentomaxillofacial Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/dmfr.20210165
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8693324

Abstract:
Objectives: This retrospective observational study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of two-dimensional radiographs on canine-induced root resorption (CIRR) in lateral incisors and identify predictors of CIRR in patients with impacted maxillary canines (IMC). Methods: Ninety-nine patients aged 9–17 years, with 156 IMCs, were included in the study. All had CBCT-volumes and two-dimensional radiographs consisting of at least one panoramic radiograph. Two radiologists jointly viewed all cases twice. First, radiographic features related to the IMC and possible CIRR were recorded from two-dimensional radiographs. Then, CIRR was determined from CBCT and according to position and extension classified as mild, moderate and severe. Results: CIRRs was detected in 80% of lateral incisors (mild: 45%; moderate: 44%; severe: 11%). The sensitivity was generally low at mild and moderate cut-offs (29 and 29%), and somewhat higher for severe (50%). Corresponding specificities were 48%, 63% and 68%. Canine cusp-tip superimposing the lateral incisor’s middle third and root/crown ratio >1 was positively associated with mild CIRR, with an odds ratio (OR) of 3.8 and 6.7, respectively. In addition, the root development stage was positively associated with moderate/severe CIRR when the canine root was nearly or fully developed (OR = 3.1). Conclusions: The diagnostic accuracy of two-dimensional radiographs was inadequate for detecting CIRR amongst patients referred for CBCT examinations. Based on our results, none of the suggested two-dimensional radiographic features could predict moderate/severe CIRR except for root development stage. IMC in a later stage of root development seems to be associated with a higher risk of moderate/severe CIRR.
