Title: Pathological combinations in neurodegenerative disease are heterogeneous and disease-associated
Authors: John L Robinson, Sharon X Xie, Daniel R Baer, EunRan Suh, Vivianna M Van Deerlin, Nicholas J Loh, David J Irwin, Corey T McMillan, David A Wolk, Alice Chen-Plotkin, Daniel Weintraub, Theresa Schuck, Virginia M Y Lee, John Q Trojanowski, Edward B Lee
Year: 2023
Venue: Brain
DOI: 10.1093/brain/awad059
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232273

Abstract:
Abstract Pathologies that are causative for neurodegenerative disease (ND) are also frequently present in unimpaired, older individuals. In this retrospective study of 1647 autopsied individuals, we report the incidence of 10 pathologies across ND and normal ageing in attempt to clarify which pathological combinations are disease-associated and which are ageing-related. Eight clinically defined groups were examined including unimpaired individuals and those with clinical Alzheimer’s disease, mixed dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal degeneration, multiple system atrophy, probable Lewy body disease or probable tauopathies. Up to seven pathologies were observed concurrently resulting in a heterogeneous mix of 161 pathological combinations. The presence of multiple additive pathologies associated with older age, increasing disease duration, APOE e4 allele and presence of dementia across the clinical groups. Fifteen to 67 combinations occurred in each group, with the unimpaired group defined by 35 combinations. Most combinations occurred at a <5% prevalence including 86 that were present in only one or two individuals. To better understand this heterogeneity, we organized the pathological combinations into five broad categories based on their age-related frequency: (i) ‘Ageing only’ for the unimpaired group combinations; (ii) ‘ND only’ if only the expected pathology for that individual’s clinical phenotype was present; (iii) ‘Other ND’ if the expected pathology was not present; (iv) ‘ND + ageing’ if the expected pathology was present together with ageing-related pathologies at a similar prevalence as the unimpaired group; and (v) ‘ND + associated’ if the expected pathology was present together with other pathologies either not observed in the unimpaired group or observed at a greater frequency. ND only cases comprised a minority of cases (19–45%) except in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (56%) and multiple system atrophy (65%) groups. The ND + ageing category represented 9–28% of each group, but was rare in Alzheimer’s disease (1%). ND + associated combinations were common in Alzheimer’s disease (58%) and Lewy body disease (37%) and were observed in all groups. The Ageing only and Other ND categories accounted for a minority of individuals in each group. This observed heterogeneity indicates that the total pathological burden in ND is frequently more than a primary expected clinicopathological correlation with a high frequency of additional disease- or age-associated pathologies. Robinson et al. examine the incidence of 10 pathologies in autopsied individuals with or without neurodegenerative disease. Up to seven pathologies were observed concurrently, resulting in 161 different combinations. The presence of multiple additive pathologies was associated with longer disease duration, clinical dementia, older age and APOE e4 status. See Younes and Mormino ( https://doi.org/10.1093/brain/awad154 ) for a scientific commentary on this article.
