Title: Interleukin-27 Promotes Divergent Effects on HIV-1 Infection in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells through BST-2/Tetherin
Authors: Jairo R. Temerozo, Pedro L. C. Ferreira, Leandra Linhares-Lacerda, Rhaíssa C. Vieira, Bruno Cister-Alves, Livia Gobbo, Marcelo Ribeiro-Alves, Rubem F. S. Menna-Barreto, Dumith Chequer Bou-Habib
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Virology
DOI: 10.1128/jvi.01752-22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9888194

Abstract:
ABSTRACT Interleukin-27 (IL-27) is able to inhibit HIV-1 replication in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), macrophages, and dendritic cells. Here, we identify that IL-27 can produce opposing effects on HIV-1 replication in PBMCs and that the HIV-1 restriction factor BST-2/Tetherin is involved in both inhibitory and enhancing effects on HIV-1 infection induced by IL-27. IL-27 inhibited HIV-1 replication when added to cells 2 h after infection, promoting the prototypical BST-2/Tetherin-induced virion accumulation at the cell membrane of HIV-1-infected PBMCs. BST-2/Tetherin gene expression was significantly upregulated in the IL-27-treated PBMCs, with a simultaneous increase in the number of BST-2/Tetherin + cells. The silencing of BST-2/Tetherin diminished the anti-HIV-1 effect of IL-27. In contrast, IL-27 increased HIV-1 production when added to infected cells 4 days after infection. This enhancing effect was prevented by BST-2/Tetherin gene knockdown, which also permitted IL-27 to function again as an HIV-1 inhibitory factor. These contrasting roles of IL-27 were associated with the dynamic of viral production, since the IL-27-mediated enhancement of virus replication was prevented by antiretroviral treatment of infected cells, as well as by keeping cells under agitation to avoid cell-to-cell contact. Likewise, inhibition of CD11a, an integrin associated with HIV-1 cell-to-cell transmission, abrogated the IL-27 enhancement of HIV-1 production. Our findings illustrate the complexity of the HIV-1–host interactions and may impact the potential therapeutic use of IL-27 and other soluble mediators that induce BST-2/Tetherin expression for HIV-1 infection. IMPORTANCE Here, we describe new findings related to the ability of the cytokine IL-27 to regulate the growth of HIV-1 in CD4 + T lymphocytes. IL-27 has long been considered a potent inhibitor of HIV-1 replication, a notion based on several reports showing that this cytokine controls HIV-1 infection in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), monocyte-derived macrophages, and dendritic cells. However, our present results are contrary to the current knowledge that IL-27 acts only as a powerful downregulator of HIV-1 replication. We observed that IL-27 can either prevent or enhance viral growth in PBMCs, an outcome dependent on when this cytokine is added to the infected cells. We detected that the increase of HIV-1 dissemination is due to enhanced cell-to-cell transmission with the involvement of the interferon-induced HIV-1 restriction factor BST-2/Tetherin and CD11a (LFA-1), an integrin that participates in formation of virological synapse.
