Title: Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes ameliorate liver steatosis by promoting fatty acid oxidation and reducing fatty acid synthesis
Authors: Fuji Yang, Yanshuang Wu, Yifei Chen, Jianbo Xi, Ying Chu, Jianhua Jin, Yongmin Yan
Year: 2023
Venue: JHEP Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.jhepr.2023.100746
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232730

Abstract:
Background & Aims Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects nearly a quarter of the population with no approved pharmacological therapy. Liver steatosis is a primary characteristic of NAFLD. Recent studies suggest that human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (MSC-ex) may provide a promising strategy for treating liver injury; however, the role and underlying mechanisms of MSC-ex in steatosis are not fully understood. Methods Oleic–palmitic acid-treated hepatic cells and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced NAFLD mice were established to observe the effect of MSC-ex. Using non-targeted lipidomics and transcriptome analyses, we analysed the gene pathways positively correlated with MSC-ex. Mass spectrometry and gene knockdown/overexpression analyses were performed to evaluate the effect of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 1 (CAMKK1) transferred by MSC-ex on lipid homoeostasis regulation. Results Here, we demonstrate that MSC-ex promote fatty acid oxidation and reduce lipogenesis in oleic–palmitic acid-treated hepatic cells and HFD-induced NAFLD mice. Non-targeted lipidomics and transcriptome analyses suggested that the effect of MSC-ex on lipid accumulation positively correlated with the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase. Furthermore, mass spectrometry and gene knockdown/overexpression analyses revealed that MSC-ex-transferred CAMKK1 is responsible for ameliorating lipid accumulation in an AMP-activated protein kinase-dependent manner, which subsequently inhibits SREBP-1C-mediated fatty acid synthesis and enhances peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα)-mediated fatty acid oxidation. Conclusions MSC-ex may prevent HFD-induced NAFLD via CAMKK1-mediated lipid homoeostasis regulation. Impact and Implications NAFLD includes many conditions, from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, which can lead to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and even hepatocellular carcinoma. So far, there is no approved drug for treating liver steatosis of NAFLD. Thus, better therapies are needed to regulate lipid metabolism and prevent the progression from liver steatosis to chronic liver disease. By using a combination of non-targeted lipidomic and transcriptome analyses, we revealed that human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (MSC-ex) effectively reduced lipid deposition and improved liver function from HFD-induced liver steatosis. Our study highlights the importance of exosomal CAMKK1 from MSC-ex in mediating lipid metabolism regulation via AMPK-mediated PPARα/CPT-1A and SREBP-1C/fatty acid synthase signalling in hepatocytes. These findings are significant in elucidating novel mechanisms related to MSC-ex-based therapies for preventing NAFLD. Graphical abstract Highlights • MSC-derived exosomes ameliorate liver steatosis in NAFLD mice. • MSC-ex-transferred CAMKK1 is responsible for reducing lipid accumulation. • CAMKK1 inhibits SREBP-1C-mediated fatty acid synthesis and enhances PPARα-mediated fatty acid oxidation in an AMPK-dependent manner.
