Title: No evidence of oligoclonal bands, intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and B cell recruitment in acute ischemic stroke
Authors: Kornelia Laichinger, Paula Bombach, Jutta Dünschede, Christoph Ruschil, Maria-Ioanna Stefanou, Evelyn Dubois, Sven Poli, Katharina Feil, Ulf Ziemann, Markus Kowarik, Annerose Mengel
Year: 2023
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0283476
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10065233

Abstract:
Background Within the past 10 years, immune mechanisms associated with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) have been brought into focus, but data on B cell activation and intrathecal Ig production is still scarce. In this study, we determined the prevalence of an elevated IgG index, positive oligoclonal bands (OCBs) and chemokine C-X-C motif ligand 13 (CXCL13) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as markers of intrathecal IgG synthesis and B cell activation in patients with AIS. Methods In a retrospective study we analyzed the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 212 patients with AIS from December 2013 to May 2018 assessing intrathecal Ig synthesis, OCBs and CXCL13 concentrations. Results Overall, 5.7% (12/212) of AIS patients showed an intrathecal IgG synthesis, 0.5% (1/212) with isolated elevated IgG index, 5.2% (7/136) isolated positive OCBs and 2.9% (4/136) both elevated IgG index and positive OCBs. CXCL13 levels were elevated in 3.6% (3/83) of the patients. Approximately one third of these patients had simultaneously chronic inflammatory CNS disease (multiple sclerosis, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder, neurosarcoidosis). There was no significant association between CSF findings and stroke characteristics including vascular territory, localization, volume, etiology, acute treatment, or blood-brain barrier dysfunction. Intrathecal IgG synthesis was more common in patients with prior stroke. Longitudinal CSF analysis did not reveal any newly-occurring, but instead mostly persistent or even disappearing intrathecal IgG synthesis after AIS. Conclusions We found no evidence of a relevant B cell recruitment and intrathecal IgG synthesis in patients with AIS. In fact, the occurrence of intrathecal IgG synthesis was associated with concurrent chronic inflammatory CNS disease or previous stroke. Consequently, in patients with first-ever AIS and intrathecal IgG synthesis, physicians should search for concomitant inflammatory CNS disease.
