Title: Smoking Habit and Respiratory Function Predict Patients’ Outcome after Surgery for Lung Cancer, Irrespective of Histotype and Disease Stage
Authors: Davide Piloni, Francesco R. Bertuccio, Cristiano Primiceri, Pietro Rinaldi, Vittorio Chino, David Michael Abbott, Federico Sottotetti, Chandra Bortolotto, Francesco Agustoni, Jessica Saddi, Giulia M. Stella
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12041561
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9967492

Abstract:
Background. Growing evidence suggests that sublobar resections offer more favorable outcomes than lobectomy in early-stage lung cancer surgery. However, a percentage of cases that cannot be ignored develops disease recurrence irrespective of the surgery performed with curative intent. The goal of this work is thus to compare different surgical approaches, namely, lobectomy and segmentectomy (typical and atypical) to derive prognostic and predictive markers. Patients and Methods. Here we analyzed a cohort of 153 NSCLC patients in clinical stage TNM I who underwent pulmonary resection surgery with a mediastinal hilar lymphadenectomy from January 2017 to December 2021, with an average follow-up of 25.5 months. Partition analysis was also applied to the dataset to detect outcome predictors. Results. The results of this work showed similar OS between lobectomy and typical and atypical segmentectomy for patients with stage I NSCLC. In contrast, lobectomy was associated with a significant improvement in DFS compared with typical segmentectomy in stage IA, while in stage IB and overall, the two treatments were similar. Atypical segmentectomy showed the worst performance, especially in 3-year DFS. Quite unexpectedly, outcome predictor ranking analysis suggests a prominent role of smoking habits and respiratory function, irrespective of the tumor histotype and the patient’s gender. Conclusions. Although the limited follow-up interval cannot allow conclusive remarks about prognosis, the results of this study suggest that both lung volumes and the degree of emphysema-related parenchymal damage are the strongest predictors of poor survival in lung cancer patients. Overall, these data point out that greater attention should be addressed to the therapeutic intervention for co-existing respiratory diseases to obtain optimal control of early lung cancer.
