Title: 60-year-old male with rapidly progressive pneumocephalus caused by Clostridium septicum in the setting of an occult colonic adenocarcinoma
Authors: Austin J. Helmink, Taylor A. Wahlig, Paul D. Fey, Jie Chen, Kirk W. Foster
Year: 2023
Venue: BMC Infectious Diseases
DOI: 10.1186/s12879-023-08160-9
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10061804

Abstract:
Background Disseminated Clostridium septicum infection is an uncommon complication associated with malignancies, particular colonic adenocarcinoma. The organism appears to preferentially colonize large masses in rare individuals and subsequently seed the blood via mucosal ulceration. This has rarely been reported to lead to central nervous system infection and, in several cases, rapidly progressive pneumocephalus. In the few cases reported, this was a universally fatal condition. The current case adds to the reports of this extremely rare complication and provides a unique and complete clinicopathologic characterization with autopsy examination, microscopy, and molecular testing. Case Presentation A 60-year-old man with no known past medical history was discovered having seizure-like activity and stroke-like symptoms. Blood cultures turned positive after six hours. Imaging revealed a large, irregular cecal mass as well as 1.4 cm collection of air in the left parietal lobe that progressed to over 7 cm within 8 h. By the following morning, the patient had lost all neurologic reflexes and died. Post-mortem examination revealed brain tissue with multiple grossly evident cystic spaces and intraparenchymal hemorrhage, while microscopic exam showed diffuse hypoxic-ischemic injury and gram-positive rods. Clostridium septicum was identified on blood cultures and was confirmed in paraffin embedded tissue from the brain by 16 S ribosomal sequencing and from the colon by C. septicum specific PCR. Conclusions C. septicum is an anaerobic, gram-positive rod that can become invasive and is strongly associated with gastrointestinal pathology including colonic adenocarcinomas. Central nervous system infection with rapidly progressive pneumocephalus is a rarely reported and universally fatal complication of disseminated C. septicum infection.
