Title: Contact Guidance of Connective Tissue Fibroblasts on Submicrometer Anisotropic Topographical Cues Is Dependent on Tissue of Origin, β1 Integrins, and Tensin-1 Recruitment
Authors: Sarah Brooks, Silvia Mittler, Douglas W. Hamilton
Year: 2023
Venue: ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces
DOI: 10.1021/acsami.2c22381
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141244

Abstract:
The substratum topography of both natural and synthetic materials is a prominent regulator of cell behaviors including adhesion, migration, matrix fibrillogenesis, and cell phenotype. Connective tissue fibroblasts are known to respond to repeating groove topographical modifications by aligning and exhibiting directed migration, a phenomenon termed contact guidance. Although both reside in collagen rich connective tissues, dermal and gingival fibroblasts are known to exhibit differences in phenotype during wound healing, with gingival tissue showing a fetal-like scarless response. Differences in adhesion formation and maturation are known to underlie both a scarring phenotype and cell response to topographical features. Utilizing repeating groove substrates with periodicities of 600, 900, and 1200 nm (depth, 100 nm), we investigated the roles of integrins αvβ3 and β1 associated adhesions on contact guidance of human gingival (HGFs) and dermal fibroblasts (HDFs). HGFs showed a higher degree of orientation with the groove long axis than HDFs, with alignment of both vinculin and tensin-1 evident on 600 and 900 nm periodicities in both cell types. Orientation with grooves of any periodicity in HGFs and HDFs did not alter the adhesion number or area compared to smooth control surfaces. Growth of both cell types on all periodicities reduced fibronectin fibrillogenesis compared to control surfaces. Independent inhibition of integrin αvβ3 and β1 in both cell types induced changes in spreading up to 6 h and reduced alignment with the groove long axis. At 24 h post-seeding with blocking antibodies, HGFs recovered orientation, but in HDFs, blocking of β1, but not αvβ3 integrins, inhibited alignment. Blocking of β1 and αvβ3 in HDFs, but not HGFs, inhibited tensin-1-associated fibrillar adhesion formation. Furthermore, inhibition of β1 integrins in HDFs, but not HGFs, resulted in recruitment of tensin-1 to αvβ3 focal adhesions, preventing HDFs from aligning with the groove long axis. Our work demonstrates that tensin-1 localization with specific integrins in adhesion sites is an important determinant of contact guidance. This work emphasizes further the need for tissue-specific biomaterials, when integration into host tissues is required.
