Title: Maturational patterns of the infant gut mycobiome are associated with early-life body mass index
Authors: Mackenzie W. Gutierrez, Emily M. Mercer, Shirin Moossavi, Isabelle Laforest-Lapointe, Myrtha E. Reyna, Allan B. Becker, Elinor Simons, Piush J. Mandhane, Stuart E. Turvey, Theo J. Moraes, Malcolm R. Sears, Padmaja Subbarao, Meghan B. Azad, Marie-Claire Arrieta
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.100928
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9975311

Abstract:
Summary Unlike the bacterial microbiome, the role of early-life gut fungi in host metabolism and childhood obesity development remains poorly characterized. To address this, we investigate the relationship between the gut mycobiome of 100 infants from the Canadian Healthy Infant Longitudinal Development (CHILD) Cohort Study and body mass index Z scores (BMIz) in the first 5 years of life. An increase in fungal richness during the first year of life is linked to parental and infant BMI. The relationship between richness pattern and early-life BMIz is modified by maternal BMI, maternal diet, infant antibiotic exposure, and bacterial beta diversity. Further, the abundances of Saccharomyces , Rhodotorula , and Malassezia are differentially associated with early-life BMIz. Using structural equation modeling, we determine that the mycobiome’s contribution to BMIz is likely mediated by the bacterial microbiome. This demonstrates that mycobiome maturation and infant growth trajectories are distinctly linked, advocating for inclusion of fungi in larger pediatric microbiome studies. Graphical abstract Highlights • Divergent gut mycobiome maturation patterns are observed in the first year of life • Mycobiome maturation patterns are associated with metabolism-related factors • Specific fungal taxa are differentially associated with BMIz in early childhood • Mycobiome influences on early childhood BMIz are likely mediated by gut bacteria Gutierrez et al. show that contrasting gut mycobiome maturation patterns in early life are linked to obesity-related factors, including associations between specific fungal taxa and BMI in early childhood. The influence of the gut mycobiome on BMI appears to be dependent on the bacterial gut microbiome.
