Title: Effect of insect protein and protease on growth performance, blood profiles, fecal microflora and gas emission in growing pig
Authors: Young Bin Go, Ji Hwan Lee, Byong Kon Lee, Han Jin Oh, Yong Ju Kim, Jae Woo An, Se Yeon Chang, Dong Cheol Song, Hyun Ah Cho, Hae Ryoung Park, Ji Yeon Chun, Jin Ho Cho
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Animal Science and Technology
DOI: 10.5187/jast.2022.e77
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9890344

Abstract:
Abstract Two experiments were conducted to determine the effect of Hermetia illucens larvae (HIL) as protein and protease on growth performance, blood profiles, fecal microflora, and gas emission in growing pig. In experiment 1, the seventy-two crossbred growing pigs ([Landrace × Yorkshire] × Duroc) with an initial body weight (BW) of 27.98 ± 2.95 kg were randomly allotted to one of four dietary treatments (3 pigs per pen and 6 replicates pen per treatments). The experimental design was a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement of treatments evaluating two diets (Poultry offal diets and HIL diets) without or with supplementing protease. The poultry offal in basal diet has been replaced by HIL. In experiment 2, the four crossbred growing pigs ([Landrace × Yorkshire] × Duroc) with an initial BW of 28.2 ± 0.1 kg were individually accepted in stainless steel metabolism cages. The dietary treatments included: 1) PO- (PO-; poultry offal diet), 2) PO+ (PO- + 0.05% protease), 3) HIL- (3% PO of PO- diet was replacement 3% HIL), 4) HIL+ (HIL- + 0.05% protease). In experiment 1, From weeks 0 to 2, average daily gain (ADG) and feed efficiency (G:F) were significantly increased in the PO diet group compared with the HIL group. From weeks 2 to 4, ADG and G:F were higher for protease group than for non-protease group. At weeks 2 and 4, the PO diet group had lower blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels than HIL diet group. In experiment 2, crude protein (CP) and nitrogen (N) retention were decreased by HIL diet at weeks 2 and 4. The fecal microflora and gas emission were not affected by HIL and protease. The HIL diet showed lower CP digestibility than PO diet and total essential amino acids digestibility tended to higher in PO diet than HIL diet. In summary, the present study revealed that replacement of the PO protein with the HIL protein and the additive of protease in growing pig diets during the overall experimental period had no negative effect.
