Title: Differentiation and homeostasis of effector Treg cells are regulated by inositol polyphosphates modulating Ca 2+ influx
Authors: Hyungyu Min, Wooseob Kim, Sehoon Hong, Sungkyu Lee, Jinguk Jeong, Seyun Kim, Rho H. Seong
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2121520119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9271192

Abstract:
Significance Regulatory T (Treg) cells are indispensable for mediating self-tolerance and immune homeostasis. Treg cells expressing Foxp3 further differentiate into subtype cells residing in specific tissues. The differentiation is regulated by a process involving T cell receptor (TCR) signaling and downstream events through yet an unrevealed molecular mechanism. In this study, we show inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) as a key regulator of Treg cell differentiation. Mechanistically, IPMK-mediated production of Ins(1,3,4,5)P 4 is essential for the full activation of TCR-triggered Ca 2+ release, providing a previously unidentified link integrating inositol polyphosphate metabolism, TCR-Ca 2+ signaling, and Treg cell differentiation and its function. Our findings will provide a new perspective on the roles of inositol polyphosphates in Treg cell biology. Activated Foxp3 + regulatory T (Treg) cells differentiate into effector Treg (eTreg) cells to maintain peripheral immune homeostasis and tolerance. T cell receptor (TCR)–mediated induction and regulation of store-operated Ca 2+ entry (SOCE) is essential for eTreg cell differentiation and function. However, SOCE regulation in Treg cells remains unclear. Here, we show that inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK), which generates inositol tetrakisphosphate and inositol pentakisphosphate, is a pivotal regulator of Treg cell differentiation downstream of TCR signaling. IPMK is highly expressed in TCR-stimulated Treg cells and promotes a TCR-induced Treg cell program. IPMK-deficient Treg cells display aberrant T cell activation and impaired differentiation into RORγt + Treg cells and tissue-resident Treg cells. Mechanistically, IPMK controls the generation of higher-order inositol phosphates, thereby promoting Ca 2+ mobilization and Treg cell effector functions. Our findings identify IPMK as a critical regulator of TCR-mediated Ca 2+ influx and highlight the importance of IPMK in Treg cell-mediated immune homeostasis.
