Title: Cost-effectiveness of ursodeoxycholic acid in preventing new-onset symptomatic gallstone disease after Roux-en- Y gastric bypass surgery
Authors: Sylke Haal, Maimoena S S Guman, L Maurits de Brauw, Ruben Schouten, Ruben N van Veen, Paul Fockens, Victor E A Gerdes, Rogier P Voermans, Marcel G W Dijkgraaf
Year: 2022
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znac273
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364680

Abstract:
Abstract Background The aim was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and cost–utility of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) prophylaxis for the prevention of symptomatic gallstone disease after Roux-en- Y gastric bypass (RYGB) in patients without gallstones before surgery. Methods Data from a multicentre, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled superiority trial were used. Patients scheduled for laparoscopic RYGB or sleeve gastrectomy were randomized to receive 900 mg UDCA or placebo for 6 months. Indicated by the clinical report, prophylactic prescription of UDCA was evaluated economically against placebo from a healthcare and societal perspective for the subgroup of patients without gallstones before surgery who underwent RYGB. Volumes and costs of in-hospital care, out-of-hospital care, out-of-pocket expenses, and productivity loss were assessed. Main outcomes were the costs per patient free from symptomatic gallstone disease and the costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Results Patients receiving UDCA prophylaxis were more likely to remain free from symptomatic gallstone disease (relative risk 1.06, 95 per cent c.i. 1.02 to 1.11; P = 0.002) compared with patients in the placebo group. The gain in QALYs, corrected for a baseline difference in health utility, was 0.047 (95 per cent bias-corrected and accelerated (Bca) c.i. 0.007 to 0.088) higher ( P = 0.022). Differences in costs were –€356 (95 per cent Bca c.i. €–1573 to 761) from a healthcare perspective and –€1392 (–3807 to 917) from a societal perspective including out-of-pocket expenses and productivity loss, both statistically non-significant, in favour of UDCA prophylaxis. The probability of UDCA prophylaxis being cost-effective was at least 0.872. Conclusion UDCA prophylaxis after RYGB in patients without gallstones before surgery was cost-effective. This cost-effectiveness analysis compared ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) prophylaxis with placebo for the prevention of symptomatic gallstone disease after Roux-en- Y gastric bypass . UDCA prophylaxis resulted in a significantly higher proportion of patients remaining free from symptomatic gallstone disease and in a surplus of nearly 0.05 in QALYs gained from baseline. The mean cost savings of €1392 was not significant.
