Title: Esophageal epiphrenic diverticulum treated with laparoscopic surgery in a patient with systemic sclerosis: A rare case report
Authors: Ryuichi Asai, Yoshihiro Tanaka, Yuta Sato, Seito Fujibayashi, Masahide Endo, Nobuhisa Matsuhashi
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2023.108136
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140794

Abstract:
Introduction and importance Systemic sclerosis is a disease characterized by autoimmune inflammation, fibrosis of the skin and internal organs, and vasculopathy. Diverticula found in the intestines are a common feature in patients with systemic sclerosis, but esophageal epiphrenic diverticulum is extremely rare. We present a rare case of esophageal epiphrenic diverticulum treated with laparoscopic diverticulectomy and Heller myotomy in a patient with systemic sclerosis. Case presentation A 73-year-old woman had been treated with prednisolone for diffuse systemic sclerosis with interstitial pneumonia. The patient had complained of chronic dysphagia and reflux symptoms. A small and asymptomatic diverticulum was first detected four years ago. Endoscopy repeated because of exacerbation of symptoms revealed an enlarged diverticulum. Therefore, the patient underwent laparoscopic diverticulectomy and Heller myotomy with partial fundoplication. Her postoperative course was uneventful, and her symptoms were relieved. Clinical discussion Although patients with systemic sclerosis commonly present with reflux esophagitis, they rarely develop achalasia-like change that leads to an esophageal diverticulum. There are several treatment options for esophageal diverticulum, including transhiatal surgery, thoracic surgery, or endoscopic treatment. Conclusion Clinicians must pay attention to patient symptoms because the worsening of dysphagia might suggest an underlying achalasia-like change or epiphrenic diverticulum in the esophagus. Surgeons should determine the treatment approach with considerations of the patient's background, the location and size of the diverticulum, and other factors. Highlights • Esophageal epiphrenic diverticulum in patients with systemic sclerosis is extremely rare. • We report a laparoscopically resected case of esophageal epiphrenic diverticulum with systemic sclerosis. • Patients with systemic sclerosis can rarely develop achalasia-like change and epiphrenic diverticulum in the esophagus. • The treatment approach should be determined with consideration of the patient's background and the status of the lesion.
