Title: Adaptation of the Pediatric Smell Wheel TM to evaluate olfactory function in Brazilian children
Authors: Marco A. Fornazieri, Lucas K. Ebara, Rafael Goulart de Araújo, João Vitor Fernandes Lima, Felipe B. Favareto, Fábio R. Pinna, Richard L. Voegels, Richard L. Doty
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2021.08.004
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9800946

Abstract:
Highlights • This study developed and validated the Pediatric Smell Wheel™ (PSW) for testing Brazilian children. • The Brazilian PSW differentiated the olfactory function of children with adenoid hypertrophy from that of healthy children. • A score below 7 out of 11 is a useful cutoff for defining microsmia in young children. Objective Olfaction influences nutrition, safety, and the cognitive development of children. Presently there are few olfactory tests for children, and normative reference values are generally lacking. In this study, we validate the Pediatric Smell Wheel TM (PSW) to evaluate olfactory function in Brazilian children. Methods We modified and validated the PSW, a test developed in the United States, for administration in Brazil, and established normative data for Brazilian children. The validation process consisted of five phases. First, we identified odorants familiar to Brazilian children. Second, we established the test-retest reliability of the Brazilian PSW test that employed these odorants. Third, we compared the test scores of healthy children to those microsmic from adenoid hypertrophy. Fourth, we examined the test’s ability to detect improvement in olfactory function before and after adenoidectomy. Finally, we determined a normative 10th percentile cut point for defining microsmia in a sample of 169 healthy Brazilian children between 5 and 12 years of age. Results Eleven odors were identified for inclusion in the test. The test-retest reliability was modest (r = 0.54, p < 0.001), although likely attenuated based on the inclusion of only data from children with normal function. The test clearly differentiated the olfactory function of children with adenoid hypertrophy from that of healthy children and demonstrated the return of function after adenoidectomy. An overall score <7 was found useful in defining hyposmia, although additional age-related cut-points were also defined. Conclusion A Brazilian version of the PSW was developed and validated and found to be efficacious in detecting smell dysfunction in children ranging in age from 5 to 12 years. Level of evidence 1b (Diagnosis).
