Title: Efficacy and Best Mode of Delivery for Tranexamic Acid in Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation: A Systematic Review
Authors: Sahar Hasan Alsharif, Asail Saeed Alghamdi, Zahraa Ali Alwayel, Saeed Nasser Alaklabi, Nawras Ali Alyamani, Mohamad Abdulwahab Sabsabee, Dunya Ali Abdulathem Bu izran, Abdulmajeed M Alajlan
Year: 2022
Venue: Clinical, Cosmetic and Investigational Dermatology
DOI: 10.2147/CCID.S394889
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9805721

Abstract:
Background Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH) is skin hyperpigmentation that occurs due to any inflammatory condition. Triggering the melanocytes by inflammation leads to melanin overproduction and deposition. Tranexamic acid (TXA) is an antifibrinolytic medication prescribed to treat bleeding. Recently, there are some studies about the use of TXA in the treatment of PIH. Objective The aim of this study is to identify the efficacy and the best mode of delivery for tranexamic acid in the treatment of PIH. Methods This systematic review is reported in accordance with PRISMA guidance. We included all relevant English-language studies that were published up to September 2022 in the following electronic databases: Cochrane Library, PubMed, Embase, and Google Scholar. The initial search yielded 61 articles, 9 of which were included after applying inclusion and exclusion criteria. Results The systematic review included a total of 196 patients who were over the age of 16 years old. Tranexamic acid was delivered orally in 4 studies, topically in 2 studies, and both simultaneously in 1 study. In addition, intradermal injection was used in 2 other studies. Almost all studies advocated the use of all routes for accelerating the clearance of hyperpigmentation with more favor towards topical and intradermal routes due to their mild reported side effects when compared to oral routes. Conclusion Intradermal TXA is considered the best route, which exhibits fewer side effects with less cost and excellent outcomes, while oral TXA is found to be less preferable than other routes due to the incidence of undesirable adverse events.
