Title: Successful in vitro fertilization following conservative surgery for synchronous endometrioid tumor of ovary and uterus
Authors: Vanita Suri, Ramandeep Bansal, Neelam Aggarwal, Pooja Sikka, Seema Chopra, Subhash Chandra Saha, Nalini Gupta, Bhavana Rai
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Ovarian Research
DOI: 10.1186/s13048-023-01137-x
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10053953

Abstract:
Background Successful pregnancy outcome in women with synchronous ovarian and endometrial cancers is very rare. We report successful pregnancy outcome in a young woman managed conservatively for synchronous endometrial and ovarian cancer. Case presentation Thirty years old nulliparous lady presented following exploratory laparotomy, left salpingo-oophorectomy and hysteroscopic polypectomy for left adnexal mass. Histology revealed endometrioid carcinoma of left ovary and moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the resected polyp. She underwent staging laparotomy along with hysteroscopy which confirmed above findings without any evidence of further tumor spread. She was treated conservatively with high dose oral progestin (megestrol acetate, 160 mg) and leuprolide acetate 3.75 mg monthly injections for three months along with four cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel based chemotherapy followed by monthly injection of leuprolide for further three months. After failure of spontaneous conception, she underwent ovulation induction for six cycles along with intrauterine insemination which failed. She underwent in vitro fertilization with donor egg followed by elective cesarean section at 37 weeks of gestation. She delivered a healthy baby of weight 2.7 kg. Intraoperatively 5 × 6 cm right ovarian cyst was found which drained chocolate coloured fluid on puncture and cystectomy was carried out. Histological examination revealed endometrioid cyst of right ovary. Uterus was spared as she wanted to preserve her fertility. She is being followed periodically and is normal nine months following delivery. She is on injection Depot medroxy progesterone acetate once every three months.
