Title: Spleen stiffness: a predictive factor of dismal prognosis in liver cirrhosis
Authors: Dimitrios S. Karagiannakis, Katerina Stefanaki
Year: 2023
Venue: Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology
DOI: 10.1007/s12328-022-01752-z
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10063465

Abstract:
Abstract Portal hypertension (PH) is a major complication of liver cirrhosis, as it predisposes to the development of serious clinical manifestations such as ascites, hepatic encephalopathy and variceal bleeding, aggravating the prognosis of patients. Hepatic vein pressure gradient (HVPG) is considered the reference method for the estimation of the presence and severity of PH, but this procedure is available only in specialized centers. Alternatively, many non-invasive methods have been proposed in order to substitute HVPG. Among them, liver stiffness measurement (LSM) has been widely used, as it has been shown to correlate well with HVPG, though this relationship seems to weaken in values of HVPG higher than 12 mmHg, the threshold of serious complications development. Several studies supported the use of spleen stiffness measurement (SSM) instead of LSM, anticipating to a more adequate assessment of this advanced stage of PH. The aim of this paper is to critically appraise and summarize the literature about the role of SSM as a predictive tool of liver decompensation and prognosis, highlighting the strengths and the potential limitations of the studies published so far. Expert’s opinion The utility of SSM in ruling out high risk for bleeding varices in cirrhotic patients has been demonstrated, driving the Baveno VII consensus to encompass SSM in its last recommendations, though its use in patients with non-viral cirrhosis remains to be validated. We believe that in the near future, SSM alone or combined with other tests, will being used not only for sparing upper endoscopies, but also for predicting decompensation and prognosis in advanced compensated cirrhotic patients, regardless of liver disease’s etiology. Herein, we present the data that support this consideration, pointing out these issues that should further be investigated in order to elucidate and intensify the value of SSM in the management of patients with liver cirrhosis.
