Title: Open Popliteus Tendon Reconstruction Using a Hamstring Tendon Autograft
Authors: Ariel N. Rodriguez, Daniel J. Liechti, Robert F. LaPrade
Year: 2023
Venue: Arthroscopy Techniques
DOI: 10.1016/j.eats.2022.11.028
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149783

Abstract:
The popliteus tendon plays a critical role in restraining the tibia against external rotation. It is often injured in the setting of posterolateral corner injuries. However, it is rarely injured in isolation from other structures of the posterolateral corner. This Technical Note describes an open anatomic reconstruction of the popliteus tendon. Although several techniques exist, this technique has been biomechanically validated and shown to have good outcomes. An early rehabilitation protocol focused on protected range of motion, edema control, quadriceps strengthening, and pain control is essential for maximizing patient outcomes. Technique Video Video 1 A standard lateral hockey-stick incision is made over the inferior border of the iliotibial band and carried distally bisecting Gerdy’s tubercle and the anterior border of the fibular head. A 6-cm long CPN neurolysis is performed with extreme care to minimize the risk of footdrop postoperatively due to swelling. Attention is then turned to the tibia for creation of the tibial tunnel. A Chandler retractor is then placed in the developed interval along the posterior tibia to protect the neurovascular structures, and an ACUFEX guide is used to drill a guide wire from anterior to posterior. The surgeon then splits the iliotibial band and enters the lateral capsule to identify the injured popliteus tendon. A pin is placed through the center of the femoral attachment of the popliteus, and the guide pin is angled to exit the thigh anteromedially. This is then over-reamed using a 6-mm reamer and is followed with a 7-mm tap. The semitendinosus tendon is then obtained using an open hamstring harvester tool. The graft is prepared by an assistant on the back table by whipstitching each end with #2 nonabsorbable sutures The popliteus tendon graft is then shuttled into the femoral tunnel and held in place with a 7 × 20-mm bioabsorbable screw. The graft is then fixed within the tibia using a 7 × 20-mm bioabsorbable screw with the knee at 60° of flexion and the foot in neutral rotation and traction on the graft The dial test and posterolateral corner test now return to normal. (CPN, common peroneal nerve.)
