Title: MUC-FIRE: Study protocol for a randomized multicenter open-label controlled trial to show that MUCous FIstula REfeeding reduces the time from enterostomy closure to full enteral feeds
Authors: Anika Großhennig, Sören Wiesner, Juliane Hellfritsch, Ulrich Thome, Matthias Knüpfer, Corinna Peter, Martin Metzelder, Christoph Binder, Ulrike Wanz, Christina Flucher, Björn O. Brands, Andreas Mollweide, Barbara Ludwikowski, Anna Koluch, Simon Scherer, Christian Gille, Till-Martin Theilen, Ulrich Rochwalsky, Christian Karpinski, Annekatrin Schulze, Tobias Schuster, Florian Weber, Guido Seitz, Jens Gesche, Matthias Nissen, Maximilian Jäger, Armin Koch, Benno Ure, Omid Madadi-Sanjani, Martin Lacher
Year: 2023
Venue: Contemporary Clinical Trials Communications
DOI: 10.1016/j.conctc.2023.101096
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974420

Abstract:
Background After enterostomy creation, the distal bowel to the ostomy is excluded from the physiologic passage of stool, nutrient uptake, and growth of this intestinal section. Those infants frequently require long-term parenteral nutrition, continued after enterostomy reversal due to the notable diameter discrepancy of the proximal and distal bowel. Previous studies have shown that mucous fistula refeeding (MFR) results in faster weight gain in infants. The aim of the randomized multicenter open-label controlled MUC ous FI stula RE feeding (“ MUC-FIRE ”) trial is to demonstrate that MFR between enterostomy creation and reversal reduces the time to full enteral feeds after enterostomy closure compared to controls, resulting in shorter hospital stay and less adverse effects of parenteral nutrition. Methods/Design: A total of 120 infants will be included in the MUC-FIRE trial. Following enterostomy creation, infants will be randomized to either an intervention or a non-intervention group. In the intervention group, perioperative MFR between enterostomy creation and reversal will be performed. The control group receives standard care without MFR. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study is the time to full enteral feeds. Secondary endpoints include first postoperative bowel movement after stoma reversal, postoperative weight gain, and days of postoperative parenteral nutrition. In addition adverse events will be analyzed. Discussion The MUC-FIRE trial will be the first prospective randomized trial to investigate the benefits and disadvantages of MFR in infants. The results of the trial are expected to provide an evidence-based foundation for guidelines in pediatric surgical centers worldwide. Trial registration The trial has been registered at clinicaltrials.gov (number: NCT03469609 , date of registration: March 19, 2018; last update: January 20, 2023, https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03469609?term=NCT03469609&draw=2&rank=1 ).
