Title: Inhibition of Lipoprotein-Associated Phospholipase A2 Ameliorates Inflammation and Decreases Atherosclerotic Plaque Formation in ApoE-Deficient Mice
Authors: Wen-yi Wang, Jie Zhang, Wen-yu Wu, Jie Li, Yan-ling Ma, Wei-hai Chen, Hong Yan, Kai Wang, Wen-wei Xu, Jian-hua Shen, Yi-ping Wang
Year: 2011
Venue: PLoS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023425
Paper ID: pmc_PMC3166130

Abstract:
Background Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) is thought to play modulatory roles in the development of atherosclerosis. Here we evaluated the effects of a specific lp-PLA2 inhibitor on atherosclerosis in ApoE-deficient mice and its associated mechanisms. Methodology/Principal Findings ApoE-deficient mice fed an atherogenic high-fat diet for 17 weeks were divided into two groups. One group was administered the specific lp-PLA2 inhibitor, darapladib (50 mg/kg/day; p.o.) daily for 6 weeks, while the control group was administered saline. We observed no differences in body weight and serum lipids levels between the two groups at the end of the dietary period. Notably, serum lp-PLA2 activity as well as hs-CRP (C-reactive protein) and IL-6 (Interleukin-6) levels were significantly reduced in the darapladib group, compared with the vehicle group, while the serum PAF (platelet-activating factor) levels were similar between the two groups. Furthermore, the plaque area through the arch to the abdominal aorta was reduced in the darapladib group. Another finding of interest was that the macrophage content was decreased while collagen content was increased in atherosclerotic lesions at the aortic sinus in the darapladib group, compared with the vehicle group. Finally, quantitative RT-PCR performed to determine the expression patterns of specific inflammatory genes at atherosclerotic aortas revealed lower expression of MCP-1, VCAM-1 and TNF-α in the darapladib group. Conclusions/Significance Inhibition of lp-PLA2 by darapladib leads to attenuation of in vivo inflammation and decreased plaque formation in ApoE-deficient mice, supporting an anti-atherogenic role during the progression of atherosclerosis.
