Title: Data assimilation in operator algebras
Authors: David Freeman, Dimitrios Giannakis, Brian Mintz, Abbas Ourmazd, Joanna Slawinska
Year: 2023
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2211115120
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974492

Abstract:
Significance Data assimilation is an essential component of numerical models for forecasting and uncertainty quantification of dynamical systems given incomplete knowledge of the state and governing equations. Here, we develop theory and computational methods for data assimilation through a combination of ideas from operator algebras, quantum information, and ergodic theory. Our approach leverages properties of noncommutative operator spaces to design computational schemes that i) preserve the sign of positive quantities such as mass in ways that are not possible with classical commutative methods and ii) are amenable to consistent data-driven approximation using machine learning. Furthermore, our framework provides a route for implementing data assimilation algorithms on quantum computers. We present applications to multiscale chaotic systems and the El Niño Southern Oscillation. We develop an algebraic framework for sequential data assimilation of partially observed dynamical systems. In this framework, Bayesian data assimilation is embedded in a nonabelian operator algebra, which provides a representation of observables by multiplication operators and probability densities by density operators (quantum states). In the algebraic approach, the forecast step of data assimilation is represented by a quantum operation induced by the Koopman operator of the dynamical system. Moreover, the analysis step is described by a quantum effect, which generalizes the Bayesian observational update rule. Projecting this formulation to finite-dimensional matrix algebras leads to computational schemes that are i) automatically positivity-preserving and ii) amenable to consistent data-driven approximation using kernel methods for machine learning. Moreover, these methods are natural candidates for implementation on quantum computers. Applications to the Lorenz 96 multiscale system and the El Niño Southern Oscillation in a climate model show promising results in terms of forecast skill and uncertainty quantification.
