Title: Atypical oscillatory dynamics during emotional face processing in paediatric obsessive–compulsive disorder with MEG
Authors: Kristina Safar, Elizabeth W. Pang, Marlee M. Vandewouw, Kathrina de Villa, Paul D. Arnold, Alana Iaboni, Muhammed Ayub, Elizabeth Kelley, Jason P. Lerch, Evdokia Anagnostou, Margot J. Taylor
Year: 2023
Venue: NeuroImage : Clinical
DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2023.103408
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10149418

Abstract:
Highlights • MEG connectivity to emotional faces in children with OCD and controls was investigated. • Between groups, the OCD group showed increased gamma connectivity to angry faces. • OCD youth showed greater beta connectivity to happy vs. angry faces. • Controls engaged a gamma band network, also greater to happy vs. angry faces. • Increased beta connectivity in OCD suggests the over-use of top-down processing. Children and youth with obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) demonstrate difficulties with social, emotional and cognitive functions in addition to the core diagnosis of obsessions and compulsions. This is the first magnetoencephalography (MEG) study to examine whole-brain neurophysiological functional connectivity of emotional face processing networks in paediatric OCD. Seventy-two participants (OCD: n = 36; age 8–17 yrs; typically developing controls: n = 36, age 8–17 yrs) completed an implicit emotional face processing task in the MEG. Functional connectivity networks in canonical frequency bands were compared between groups, and within OCD and control groups between emotions (angry vs. happy). Between groups, participants with OCD showed increased functional connectivity in the gamma band to angry faces, suggesting atypical perception of angry faces in OCD. Within groups, the OCD group showed greater engagement of the beta band, suggesting the over-use of top-down processing when perceiving happy versus angry emotions, while controls engaged in bottom-up gamma processing, also greater to happy faces. Over-activation of top-down processing has been linked to difficulties modifying one’s cognitive set. Findings establish altered patterns of neurophysiological connectivity in children with OCD, and are striking in their oscillatory specificity. Our results contribute to a greater understanding of the neurobiology of the disorder, and are foundational for the possibility of alternative targets for intervention.
