Title: Characteristics of fecal microbiota in different constipation subtypes and association with colon physiology, lifestyle factors, and psychological status
Authors: Ting Yu, Yu Ding, Dong Qian, Lin Lin, Yurong Tang
Year: 2023
Venue: Therapeutic Advances in Gastroenterology
DOI: 10.1177/17562848231154101
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974631

Abstract:
Background: Patients with chronic constipation (CC) show altered gut microbial composition. Objectives: To compare the fecal microbiota with different constipation subtypes and to identify potential influencing factors. Design: This is a prospective cohort study. Methods: The stool samples of 53 individuals with CC and 31 healthy individuals were analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing. The associations between microbiota composition and colorectal physiology, lifestyle factors, and psychological distress were analyzed. Results: In all, 31 patients with CC were classified as having slow-transit constipation, and 22 were classified under normal-transit constipation. The relative abundance of Bacteroidaceae was lower, and the relative abundance of Peptostreptococcaceae, Christensenellaceae, and Clostridiaceae was higher in slow-transit than in normal-transit group. In all, 28 and 25 patients with CC had dyssynergic defecation (DD) and non-DD, respectively. The relative abundance of Bacteroidaceae and Ruminococcaceae was higher in DD than in non-DD. Rectal defecation pressure was negatively correlated with the relative abundance of Prevotellaceae and Ruminococcaceae but positively correlated with that of Bifidobacteriaceae in CC patients. Multiple linear regression analysis suggested that depression was a positive predictor of Lachnospiraceae relative abundance, and sleep quality was an independent predictor of decreased relative abundance of Prevotellaceae. Conclusion: Patients with different CC subtypes showed different characteristics of dysbiosis. Depression and poor sleep were the main factors that affected the intestinal microbiota of patients with CC. Plain language summary Characteristics of fecal microbiota in different constipation subtypes and association with colon physiology, lifestyle factors, and psychological status Patients with chronic constipation (CC) show altered gut microbial composition. Previous studies in CC are limited by lacking of subtype stratification, which is reflected in the lack of agreement in findings across the large number of microbiome studies. We analyzed stool microbiome of 53 CC patients and 31 healthy individuals using 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that the relative abundance of Bacteroidaceae was lower, and the relative abundance of Peptostreptococcaceae, Christensenellaceae, and Clostridiaceae was higher in slow-transit than in normal-transit CC patients. The relative abundance of Bacteroidaceae and Ruminococcaceae was higher in dyssynergic defecation (DD) than in non-DD patients with CC. In addition, depression was a positive predictor of Lachnospiraceae relative abundance, and sleep quality was an independent predictor of decreased relative abundance of Prevotellaceae in all CC patients. This study emphasizes patients with different CC subtypes have different characteristics of dysbiosis. Depression and poor sleep may be the main factors that affect the intestinal microbiota of patients with CC.
