Title: Evaluation of Biomarkers from Peritoneal Fluid as Predictors of Severity for Abdominal Sepsis Patients Following Emergency Laparotomy
Authors: Jie Zhao, Teng Zhang, Zhe Deng, Xia Han, Tao Ma, Keliang Xie
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Inflammation Research
DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S401428
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9974770

Abstract:
Purpose Intra-abdominal infection is considered the second most common cause of sepsis and results in localized or diffused inflammation of the peritoneum. The main treatment for abdominal sepsis is an emergency laparotomy for source control. However, surgical trauma also causes inflammation, and patients become susceptible to postoperative complications. Therefore, it is necessary to identify biomarkers that can be used to distinguish sepsis from abdominal infection. This prospective study investigated whether cytokine levels in the peritoneum could predict complications and indicate severity of sepsis following emergency laparotomy. Methods We prospectively observed 97 patients with abdominal infection admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). After emergency laparotomy,SEPSIS-3 criteria were used for the diagnosis of sepsis or septic shock. Blood and peritoneal fluid samples were drawn at postoperative admission to the ICU and cytokine concentrations were measured by flow cytometry. Results Fifty-eight postoperative patients were enrolled. We found significant elevations in the peritoneal concentrations of IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IL-17, and IL-2 in patients with sepsis or septic shock compared to the patients without sepsis after surgery. Positive correlations between levels of these peritoneal cytokines with APACHE II scores were found: IL-6, in particular, had the highest correlation coefficient of 0.833. Meanwhile, IL-10 in blood, MCP-1 and IL-8 in both blood and peritoneum were simultaneously increased in patients with sepsis and septic shock, and also positively correlated with disease severity. Conclusion The cytokine storm that occurs in the abdominal cavity after emergency laparotomy may be the main mechanism leading to sepsis. It may be valuable to measure IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α,IL-17, IL-2, MCP-1, and IL-8 in the peritoneal fluid, combined with serum IL-10, MCP-1 and IL-8, in a panel of cytokines, to assess the severity of sepsis and predict mortality from abdominal infection after emergency laparotomy.
