Title: Whose emotion is it? Perspective matters to understand brain-body interactions in emotions
Authors: Tahnée Engelen, Anne Buot, Julie Grèzes, Catherine Tallon-Baudry
Year: 2023
Venue: Neuroimage
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2023.119867
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9926012

Abstract:
Highlights • HERs distinguish between self and other in emotions. • Neural sources in frontal operculum and visual cortices. • Physiological reactivity also encodes perspective. • HERs uniquely contribute to the valence ratings of one's own emotion. Feeling happy, or judging whether someone else is feeling happy are two distinct facets of emotions that nevertheless rely on similar physiological and neural activity. Differentiating between these two states, also called Self/Other distinction, is an essential aspect of empathy, but how exactly is it implemented? In non-emotional cognition, the transient neural response evoked at each heartbeat, or heartbeat evoked response (HER), indexes the self and signals Self/Other distinction. Here, using electroencephalography ( n = 32), we probe whether HERs’ role in Self/Other distinction extends also to emotion – a domain where brain-body interactions are particularly relevant. We asked participants to rate independently validated affective scenes, reporting either their own emotion (Self) or the emotion expressed by people in the scene (Other). During the visual cue indicating to adopt the Self or Other perspective, before the affective scene, HERs distinguished between the two conditions, in visual cortices as well as in the right frontal operculum. Physiological reactivity (facial electromyogram, skin conductance, heart rate) during affective scene co-varied as expected with valence and arousal ratings, but also with the Self- or Other- perspective adopted. Finally, HERs contributed to the subjective experience of valence in the Self condition, in addition to and independently from physiological reactivity. We thus show that HERs represent a trans-domain marker of Self/Other distinction, here specifically contributing to experienced valence. We propose that HERs represent a form of evidence related to the ‘I’ part of the judgement ‘To which extent do I feel happy’. The ‘I’ related evidence would be combined with the affective evidence collected during affective scene presentation, accounting at least partly for the difference between feeling an emotion and identifying it in someone else.
