Title: Population pharmacokinetic modelling to characterize the effect of chronic kidney disease on tenofovir exposure after tenofovir alafenamide administration
Authors: Paul Thoueille, Susana Alves Saldanha, Vincent Desfontaine, Katharina Kusejko, Perrine Courlet, Pascal Andre, Matthias Cavassini, Laurent A Decosterd, Thierry Buclin, Monia Guidi
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy
DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkad103
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10232258

Abstract:
Abstract Background Tenofovir alafenamide is gradually replacing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, both prodrugs of tenofovir, in HIV prevention and treatment. There is thus an interest in describing tenofovir pharmacokinetics (PK) and its variability in people living with HIV (PLWH) under tenofovir alafenamide in a real-life setting. Objectives To characterize the usual range of tenofovir exposure in PLWH receiving tenofovir alafenamide, while assessing the impact of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods We conducted a population PK analysis (NONMEM ® ) on 877 tenofovir and 100 tenofovir alafenamide concentrations measured in 569 PLWH. Model-based simulations allowed prediction of tenofovir trough concentrations ( C min ) in patients having various levels of renal function. Results Tenofovir PK was best described using a one-compartment model with linear absorption and elimination. Creatinine clearance (CL CR , estimated according to Cockcroft and Gault), age, ethnicity and potent P-glycoprotein inhibitors were statistically significantly associated with tenofovir clearance. However, only CL CR appeared clinically relevant. Model-based simulations revealed 294% and 515% increases of median tenofovir C min in patients with CL CR of 15–29 mL/min (CKD stage 3), and less than 15 mL/min (stage 4), respectively, compared with normal renal function (CL CR = 90–149 mL/min). Conversely, patients with augmented renal function (CL CR > 149 mL/min) had a 36% decrease of median tenofovir C min . Conclusions Kidney function markedly affects circulating tenofovir exposure after tenofovir alafenamide administration in PLWH. However, considering its rapid uptake into target cells, we suggest only a cautious increase of tenofovir alafenamide dosage intervals to 2 or 3 days only in case of moderate or severe CKD, respectively.
