Title: Correlation of dynamic contrast-enhanced bone perfusion with morphologic ultra-short echo time MR imaging in medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw
Authors: Paul Schumann, Sarah Morgenroth, Florian A Huber, Niels J Rupp, Filippo Del Grande, Roman Guggenberger
Year: 2022
Venue: Dentomaxillofacial Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/dmfr.20210036
Paper ID: pmc_PMC8802699

Abstract:
Objectives: To investigate whether dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-MR bone perfusion could serve as surrogate for morphologic ultra-short echo time (UTE) bone images and to correlate perfusion with morphologic hallmarks in histologically proven foci of medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ). Methods: Retrospective study including 20 patients with established diagnosis of MRONJ. Qualitative consensus assessment of predefined jaw regions by two radiologists was used as reference standard using Likert scale (0–3) for standard imaging hallmarks in MRONJ (osteolysis, sclerosis, periosteal thickening). DCE-MRI measurements performed in corresponding regions of the mandible were then correlated with qualitative scores. Regions were grouped into “non-affected” and “pathologic” based on binarized Likert scores of different imaging hallmarks (0–1 vs 2–3). DCE-MRI measurements among hallmarks were compared using Mann–Whitney- U -testing. ROC (receiver-operating-characteristic) analysis was performed for each of the perfusion parameters to assess diagnostic performance for identification of MRONJ using morphologic ratings as reference standard. Results: Median perfusion measurements of “pathologic” regions in wash-in, peak enhancement intensity and integrated area under the curve are significantly higher than those of “non-affected” regions, irrespective of reference imaging hallmark ( p < 0.05). No significant perfusion differences were found between “pathologic” regions with and without osteolysis ( p = 0.180). ROC analysis showed fair diagnostic performance of DCE-MRI parameters for identification of MRONJ (AUC 0.626–0.727). Conclusions: DCE bone perfusion parameters are significantly increased in MRONJ compared to non-affected regions, irrespective of osteolysis. Due to certain overlap DCE-MRI bone perfusion cannot serve as full surrogate for UTE bone imaging but may enhance reader confidence.
