Title: Random encounters and amoeba locomotion drive the predation of Listeria monocytogenes by Acanthamoeba castellanii
Authors: Frédéric de Schaetzen, Mingzhen Fan, Uria Alcolombri, François J. Peaudecerf, David Drissner, Martin J. Loessner, Roman Stocker, Markus Schuppler
Year: 2022
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2122659119
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9371647

Abstract:
Significance Acanthamoeba are considered among the most predominant and efficient microscale predators in environments such as soil and natural water systems. While it is known that Acanthamoeba castellanii employ a “backpacking” strategy to trap and aggregate bacterial prey prior to phagocytosis, a mechanistic understanding of this fascinating predation strategy has been lacking. By integrating microfluidics, high-resolution microscopy, and state-of-the-art image-analysis methods, we discovered that capture dynamics of Listeria monocytogenes by A. castellanii are mediated purely by random encounters, further enhanced by bacterial motility. Furthermore, tracking of captured L. monocytogenes on the outer surface of A. castellanii indicates a crucial role of the amoeba locomotion in the assembly of trapped cells into backpacks. Predatory protozoa play an essential role in shaping microbial populations. Among these protozoa, Acanthamoeba are ubiquitous in the soil and aqueous environments inhabited by Listeria monocytogenes . Observations of predator–prey interactions between these two microorganisms revealed a predation strategy in which Acanthamoeba castellanii assemble L. monocytogenes in aggregates, termed backpacks, on their posterior. The rapid formation and specific location of backpacks led to the assumption that A. castellanii may recruit L. monocytogenes by releasing an attractant. However, this hypothesis has not been validated, and the mechanisms driving this process remained unknown. Here, we combined video microscopy, microfluidics, single-cell image analyses, and theoretical modeling to characterize predator–prey interactions of A. castellanii and L. monocytogenes and determined whether bacterial chemotaxis contributes to the backpack formation. Our results indicate that L. monocytogenes captures are not driven by chemotaxis. Instead, random encounters of bacteria with amoebae initialize bacterial capture and aggregation. This is supported by the strong correlation between experimentally derived capture rates and theoretical encounter models at the single-cell level. Observations of the spatial rearrangement of L. monocytogenes trapped by A. castellanii revealed that bacterial aggregation into backpacks is mainly driven by amoeboid locomotion. Overall, we show that two nonspecific, independent mechanisms, namely random encounters enhanced by bacterial motility and predator surface-bound locomotion, drive backpack formation, resulting in a bacterial aggregate on the amoeba ready for phagocytosis. Due to the prevalence of these two processes in the environment, we expect this strategy to be widespread among amoebae, contributing to their effectiveness as predators.
