Title: Bibliometric analysis of the global research trends and hotspots in chordoma from 2000 to 2020
Authors: Cuicui Chang, Kai Tang, Yifan Gao, Jingyao Dai, Chen Dai
Year: 2022
Venue: PLOS ONE
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0279181
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9754290

Abstract:
Introduction Chordoma is formed from embryonic residues or ectopic chordae and locally aggressive or malignant tumors. We visually analyzed the research tendency and hotspot of chordoma. Methods The bibliometric analysis was conducted from the Web of Science Core Collection database over the past two decades. The term and strategies were as follows: “TS = (chordoma) OR TS = (chordoblastoma) OR TS = (chordocarcinoma) OR TS = (chordoepithelioma) OR TS = (chordosarcoma) OR TS = (notochordoma). AND Language: English. AND Reference Type: Article OR Review”. A total of 2,118 references were retrieved and used to make a visual analysis by VOSviewer 1.6.15. Results The chordoma was on a steady rise and chordoma but remained the focus of scholars and organizations over the last two decades. The Chinese institutions and scholars lacked cooperation with their counterparts in other countries. The citations of documents and co-citation analysis of cited references suggested that M.L. McMaster, B.P. Walcott, P. Bergh, and S. Stacchiotti were leading researchers in this field of chordoma and their papers had been widely accepted and inspired recent researches. Keywords associated with recent chemotherapy, PD-1-related immunotherapy, and SMARCB1/integrase interactor 1 (INI1) in chordoma were a shortage of research and there may be more research ideas in the future by scholars. The research of chordoma will continue to be the hotspot. Conclusions Thus, explaining the molecular mechanism and potential role of transcriptional inhibition and immunologic responses to SMARCB1/INI1-negative poorly differentiated chordoma will be available for preclinical experiments and clinical trials and lead to new therapeutic opportunities for chordoma patients.
