Title: Tracing the origin of VOCs in post-consumer plastic film bales
Authors: Martijn Roosen, Tine Van Laere, Virginie Decottignies, Ludivine Morel, Jean-Luc Schnitzler, Johannes Schneider, Martin Schlummer, Irdanto Saputra Lase, Ann Dumoulin, Steven De Meester
Year: 2023
Venue: Chemosphere
DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.138281
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10041343

Abstract:
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), including odors, are still a key issue in plastic recycling, especially in case of flexible packaging. Therefore, this study presents a detailed qualitative and quantitative VOC analysis by applying gas chromatography on 17 categories of flexible plastic packaging that are manually sorted from bales of post-consumer flexible packaging (e.g., beverage shrink wrap, packaging for frozen food, packaging for dairy products, etc.). A total of 203 VOCs are identified on packaging used for food products, while only 142 VOCs are identified on packaging used for non-food products. Especially, more oxygenated compounds (e.g., fatty acids, esters, aldehydes) are identified on food packaging. With more than 65 VOCs, the highest number of VOCs is identified on packaging used for chilled convenience food and ready meals. The total concentration of 21 selected VOCs was also higher on packaging used for food products (totally 9187 μg/kg plastic) compared to packaging used for non-food packaging (totally 3741 μg/kg plastic). Hence, advanced sorting of household plastic packaging waste, e.g., via tracer-based sorting or watermarking, could open the door towards sorting on other properties than polymer type, such as mono- versus multi-material packaging, food versus non-food packaging or even their VOC profile, which might allow for tailoring washing procedures. Potential scenarios showed that sorting the categories with the lowest VOC load, which corresponds to half of the total mass of flexible packaging, could result in a VOC reduction of 56%. By producing less contaminated plastic film fractions and by tailoring washing processes recycled plastics can ultimately be used in a broader market segment. Graphical abstract Image 1 Highlights • Presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is still a key issue in plastic recycling. • VOCs are analyzed via GC-MS on 17 categories of flexible post-consumer plastic packaging. • More VOCs are detected on food packaging compared to non-food packaging. • Highest VOC concentration was measured on packaging used for chilled convenience food. • Sorting categories with the lowest VOC load could result in a VOC reduction of 56%.
