Title: Effect of Photobiomodulation Combined with Physiotherapy on Functional Performance in Children with Myelomeningo-Cele-Randomized, Blind, Clinical Trial
Authors: Tamiris Silva, Daysi da Cruz Tobelem, Tainá Caroline Dos Santos Malavazzi, Juliana Fernandes Barreto de Mendonça, Lucas Andreo, Maria Cristina Chavantes, Anna Carolina Ratto Tempestini Horliana, Karina Helga Leal Turcio, Andréa Oliver Gomes, Alessandro Melo Deana, Kristianne Porta Santos Fernandes, Lara Jansiski Motta, Raquel Agnelli Mesquita-Ferrari, Aldo Brugnera, Samir Nammour, Sandra Kalil Bussadori
Year: 2023
Venue: Journal of Clinical Medicine
DOI: 10.3390/jcm12082920
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10142114

Abstract:
Background: This study aimed to evaluate the electrical activity of the rectus femoris, tibialis anterior, and lateral gastrocnemius muscles during the sit-to-stand task and functional mobility after a neurofunctional physiotherapy protocol associated with PBM. Methods: Twenty-five children were randomly allocated to either Active PBM + physiotherapy (n = 13) or PBM sham + physiotherapy (n = 12). PBM was carried out with a LED device (850 nm, 25 J, 50 s per point and 200 mW) at four points over the area with absence of a spiny process. Both groups completed a twelve-week supervised program with two weekly 45–60 min sessions. Pre-training and post-training assessments involved the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory (PEDI). Muscle activity was assessed using portable electromyography (BTS Engineering) and the electrodes were positioned on the lateral gastrocnemius, anterior tibialis, and rectus femoris muscles. The RMS data were recorded and analyzed. Results: After 24 sessions of the treatment protocol, improvements were found in the PEDI score. The participants presented greater independence in performing the tasks, requiring less assistance from their caregivers. More significant electrical activity was found in the three muscles evaluated between the rest period and execution of the sit-to-stand tasks, both in the more compromised or less compromised lower limbs. Conclusion: Neurofunctional physiotherapy with or without PBM improved functional mobility and electrical muscle activity in children with myelomeningocele.
