Title: Characteristics of tumor thrombosis in the inferior mesenteric vein from colorectal cancer: A report of three cases and review of the literature
Authors: Shota Izukawa, Hiroyuki Mushiake, Takuo Watanabe, Tetsushi Ishiguro, Kenki Segami, Tadao Fukushima
Year: 2023
Venue: International Journal of Surgery Case Reports
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2022.107840
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9803779

Abstract:
Introduction Intravenous tumor thrombosis is a rare condition in colorectal cancer and shows a locally aggressive biological behavior. We herein report three cases of colorectal cancer with tumor thrombosis in the inferior mesenteric vein (IMV) treated by colorectal resection combined with resection of the IMV under laparoscopic surgery. Case presentation In these three colorectal cancer patients with IMV tumor thrombus, IMV tumor thrombus was detected in all instances on preoperative computed tomography. Preoperative chemotherapy was also performed in one patient with concurrent liver metastasis. All patients underwent laparoscopic locally R0 resection; however, the pathological findings showed a positive margin for IMV resection in all patients. Clinical discussion We reviewed 19 previously reported cases along with our 3 present cases and clarified the characteristics of colorectal cancer accompanied by IMV tumor thrombosis. IMV tumor thrombosis may be a risk factor for liver metastasis and R1 resection, and systemic treatment, including neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC), may be quite important. Conclusion IMV tumor thrombosis may have a tendency to cause hematogenous metastasis. Systemic therapy, including NAC, may be useful, but since this is a rare condition, the accumulation of further cases is needed. Highlights • IMV tumor thrombosis is a rare condition in CRC. • CRC with IMV tumor thrombosis is prone to hematogenous metastasis. • CRC with IMV tumor thrombosis may be a risk factor for R1 resection. • Systemic chemotherapy should be considered for CRC with IMV tumor thrombosis.
