Title: Neoadjuvant immunotherapy in primary and metastatic colorectal cancer
Authors: A Kanani, T Veen, K Søreide
Year: 2021
Venue: The British Journal of Surgery
DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab342
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10364874

Abstract:
Abstract Background Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common solid organ cancer. Traditional treatment is with surgery and chemotherapy. Immunotherapy has recently emerged as a neoadjuvant therapy that could change treatment strategy in both primary resectable and metastatic CRC. Methods A literature review of PubMed with a focus on studies exploring upfront immunotherapy in operable CRC, either for primary resectable stage I–III cancers or for (potentially) operable liver metastasis. Results Immune checkpoint blockade by the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) receptor inhibitors nivolumab and pembrolizumab and the cytotoxic T cell-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor ipilimumab has shown good results in both early-stage and advanced CRC. The effects of immune checkpoint inhibitors have so far been demonstrated in small phase I/II studies and predominantly in treatment-refractory stage IV disease with defect Mismatch repair (dMMR). However, recent data from phase I/II (NICHE-1) studies suggest an upfront role for immunotherapy in operable stage I–III disease. By blocking crucial immune checkpoints, cytotoxic T cells are activated and release cytotoxic signals that initiate cancer cell destruction. The very high complete response rate in dMMR operable CRC with neoadjuvant immunotherapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab, and even partial pathological response in some patients with proficient MMR (pMMR) CRC, calls for further attention to patient selection for neoadjuvant treatment, beyond MMR status alone. Conclusion Early data on the effect of immunotherapy in CRC provide new strategic thinking of treatment options in CRC for both early-stage and advanced disease, with prospects for new trials. Immunotherapy has been demonstrated to be effective in subgroups of patients with colorectal cancer. Molecular subtypes may provide an opportunity for new strategic treatment plans, in addition to surgery and chemotherapy.
