Title: Tracer metabolomics reveals the role of aldose reductase in glycosylation
Authors: Silvia Radenkovic, Anna N. Ligezka, Sneha S. Mokashi, Karen Driesen, Lynn Dukes-Rimsky, Graeme Preston, Luckio F. Owuocha, Leila Sabbagh, Jehan Mousa, Christina Lam, Andrew Edmondson, Austin Larson, Matthew Schultz, Pieter Vermeersch, David Cassiman, Peter Witters, Lesa J. Beamer, Tamas Kozicz, Heather Flanagan-Steet, Bart Ghesquière, Eva Morava
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101056
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313913

Abstract:
Summary Abnormal polyol metabolism is predominantly associated with diabetes, where excess glucose is converted to sorbitol by aldose reductase (AR). Recently, abnormal polyol metabolism has been implicated in phosphomannomutase 2 congenital disorder of glycosylation (PMM2-CDG) and an AR inhibitor, epalrestat, proposed as a potential therapy. Considering that the PMM2 enzyme is not directly involved in polyol metabolism, the increased polyol production and epalrestat’s therapeutic mechanism in PMM2-CDG remained elusive. PMM2-CDG, caused by PMM2 deficiency, presents with depleted GDP-mannose and abnormal glycosylation. Here, we show that, apart from glycosylation abnormalities, PMM2 deficiency affects intracellular glucose flux, resulting in polyol increase. Targeting AR with epalrestat decreases polyols and increases GDP-mannose both in patient-derived fibroblasts and in pmm2 mutant zebrafish. Using tracer studies, we demonstrate that AR inhibition diverts glucose flux away from polyol production toward the synthesis of sugar nucleotides, and ultimately glycosylation. Finally, PMM2-CDG individuals treated with epalrestat show a clinical and biochemical improvement. Graphical abstract Highlights • Metabolomic profiling of different PMM2-CDG models shows abnormal polyol metabolism • AR inhibitor epalrestat decreases polyols and increases GDP-mannose • Tracer studies show AR inhibition promotes sugar nucleotide synthesis and glycosylation • Individuals with PMM2-CDG treated with epalrestat note clinical improvement Radenkovic et al. discover that aldose reductase (AR) and its product sorbitol are upregulated in PMM2-CDG, while GDP-mannose, an essential glycosylation precursor, is depleted. Inhibition of AR decreases sorbitol, increases GDP-mannose, and ultimately improves glycosylation. Individuals with PMM2-CDG undergoing AR inhibition by oral epalrestat therapy show clinical improvement.
