Title: EEG Signal Complexity Measurements to Enhance BCI-Based Stroke Patients’ Rehabilitation
Authors: Noor Kamal Al-Qazzaz, Alaa A. Aldoori, Sawal Hamid Bin Mohd Ali, Siti Anom Ahmad, Ahmed Kazem Mohammed, Mustafa Ibrahim Mohyee
Year: 2023
Venue: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)
DOI: 10.3390/s23083889
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10141766

Abstract:
The second leading cause of death and one of the most common causes of disability in the world is stroke. Researchers have found that brain–computer interface (BCI) techniques can result in better stroke patient rehabilitation. This study used the proposed motor imagery (MI) framework to analyze the electroencephalogram (EEG) dataset from eight subjects in order to enhance the MI-based BCI systems for stroke patients. The preprocessing portion of the framework comprises the use of conventional filters and the independent component analysis (ICA) denoising approach. Fractal dimension ( F D ) and Hurst exponent ( H u r ) were then calculated as complexity features, and Tsallis entropy ( T s E n ) and dispersion entropy ( D i s p E n ) were assessed as irregularity parameters. The MI-based BCI features were then statistically retrieved from each participant using two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to demonstrate the individuals’ performances from four classes (left hand, right hand, foot, and tongue). The dimensionality reduction algorithm, Laplacian Eigenmap ( L E ), was used to enhance the MI-based BCI classification performance. Utilizing k-nearest neighbors (KNN), support vector machine (SVM), and random forest (RF) classifiers, the groups of post-stroke patients were ultimately determined. The findings show that L E with RF and KNN obtained 74.48% and 73.20% accuracy, respectively; therefore, the integrated set of the proposed features along with ICA denoising technique can exactly describe the proposed MI framework, which may be used to explore the four classes of MI-based BCI rehabilitation. This study will help clinicians, doctors, and technicians make a good rehabilitation program for people who have had a stroke.
