Title: Orbitofrontal cortex-hippocampus potentiation mediates relief for depression: A randomized double-blind trial and TMS-EEG study
Authors: Sizhu Han, Xing-Xing Li, Shuochi Wei, Di Zhao, Jinjun Ding, Yongming Xu, Chang Yu, Zan Chen, Dong-Sheng Zhou, Ti-Fei Yuan
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101060
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10313932

Abstract:
Summary It has been 15 years since repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) targeting the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) was approved by the FDA for clinical depression treatment. Yet, the underlying mechanisms for rTMS-induced depression relief are not fully elucidated. This study analyzes TMS-electroencephalogram (EEG) data from 64 healthy control (HC) subjects and 53 patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) before and after rTMS treatment. Prior to treatment, patients with MDD have lower activity in the DLPFC, the hippocampus (HPC), the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and DLPFC-OFC connectivity compared with HCs. Following active rTMS treatment, patients with MDD show a significant increase in the DLPFC, HPC, and OFC. Notably, the increase in HPC activity is specifically associated with amelioration of depressive symptoms but not anxiety or sleep quality. The orbitofrontal-hippocampal pathway plays a crucial role in mediating depression relief following rTMS treatment. These findings suggest potential alternative targets for brain stimulation therapy against depression (chictr.org.cn: ChiCTR2100052007 ). Graphical abstract Highlights • Patients with MDD have impaired regional excitability and inter-regional connectivity • With a double-blind clinical trial, DLPFC-targeted rTMS treatment relieves depression • Normalization of HPC is specifically associated with depression relief • Repotentiation of OFC-HPC pathway mediates depression relief Han et al. demonstrate that patients with MDD have reduced activity in the DLPFC, the OFC, the HPC, and DLPFC-OFC connectivity compared with healthy controls. They show that DLPFC-targeted rTMS treatment ameliorates depressive symptoms via the OFC-HPC pathway.
