Title: Meta-analysis of published cerebrospinal fluid proteomics data identifies and validates metabolic enzyme panel as Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers
Authors: Patrick W. van Zalm, Saima Ahmed, Benoit Fatou, Rudy Schreiber, Omar Barnaby, Adam Boxer, Henrik Zetterberg, Judith A. Steen, Hanno Steen
Year: 2023
Venue: Cell Reports Medicine
DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101005
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10140596

Abstract:
Summary To develop therapies for Alzheimer’s disease, we need accurate in vivo diagnostics. Multiple proteomic studies mapping biomarker candidates in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) resulted in little overlap. To overcome this shortcoming, we apply the rarely used concept of proteomics meta-analysis to identify an effective biomarker panel. We combine ten independent datasets for biomarker identification: seven datasets from 150 patients/controls for discovery, one dataset with 20 patients/controls for down-selection, and two datasets with 494 patients/controls for validation. The discovery results in 21 biomarker candidates and down-selection in three, to be validated in the two additional large-scale proteomics datasets with 228 diseased and 266 control samples. This resulting 3-protein biomarker panel differentiates Alzheimer’s disease (AD) from controls in the two validation cohorts with areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROCs) of 0.83 and 0.87, respectively. This study highlights the value of systematically re-analyzing previously published proteomics data and the need for more stringent data deposition. Graphical abstract Highlights • We provide a generic strategy for unbiased meta-analysis of proteomics data • We apply our strategy to 664 CSF samples from ten Alzheimer’s disease cohorts • Mostly metabolic enzymes are found to be altered in CSF samples • Discovery and validation of three CSF biomarkers in 170 and 494 samples, respectively Van Zalm and colleagues present a strategy for meta-analysis of proteomics data. Its application is shown in CSF proteomics datasets from ten Alzheimer’s cohorts. Three metabolic enzyme biomarkers are found to be significantly altered in Alzheimer’s disease in 170 samples from eight cohorts and further validated in 494 samples.
