Title: Prevalence of respiratory epithelial adenomatoid hamartomas (REAH) associated with nasal polyposis: an epidemiological study – how to diagnose
Authors: Maria Julia Abrão Issa, Vitor Ramos Ribeiro de Oliveira, Flavio Barbosa Nunes, Luís Otávio Giovanardi Vasconcelos, Luiz Felipe Bartolomeu Souza, Giancarlo Bonotto Cherobin, Roberto Eustáquio Santos Guimarães
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2021.09.009
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801022

Abstract:
Highlights • Olfactory cleft enlargement and opacification suggests hamartoma. • Individualized anatomopathological exam of material from the olfactory cleft. • Material examined by experienced pathologist. • Almost half of the patients with Nasal Polyps have hamartomas. Objectives To highlight the prevalence of respiratory epithelial adenomatoid hamartomas in the olfactory cleft of patients with nasal polyposis. To demonstrate characteristics indicative of hamartoma on the CT scans of paranasal sinuses during surgery and in histopathological exams. Methods Cross-sectional study carried out in Hospital das Clínicas da UFMG and Núcleo de Otorrino BH. We performed 114 nasal endoscopic surgeries for polyposis, between February 2015 and November 2019. We assessed the olfactory cleft width in all preoperative CT scans. Upon seeing an indication of hamartoma on the CT scan, we took a tissue sample from the olfactory cleft during the surgery and sent for histopathological exam. We referred the samples to a pathologist experienced in the anatomopathological diagnosis of respiratory epithelial adenomatoid hamartomas. Results Of the 114 patients with polyposis, 54 (47.4%) had olfactory cleft enlargement and, 100% of them had tissue with a dense and hardened polypoid aspect, with a slight cerebriform appearance in this region during the surgery. Histology confirmed a respiratory epithelial adenomatoid hamartoma. Conclusion This observation suggests that the presence of hamartomas in polyposis is common, but underdiagnosed. Level of evidence Step 3 (Level 3).
