Title: Pediatric rhegmatogenous retinal detachment: A meta-analysis of clinical features, surgical success rate, and prognostic factors
Authors: Fatemeh Abdi, Ali Aghajani, Sara Hemmati, Delaram Moosavi, Arzhang Gordiz, Emad Soleimani Bayatiani, Samira Chaibakhsh
Year: 2023
Venue: Indian Journal of Ophthalmology
DOI: 10.4103/ijo.IJO_643_22
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10229985

Abstract:
Pediatric rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) is an issue of debate regarding its surgical outcomes and prognosis because of diagnosis delay, more complex etiological factors, and a higher prevalence of postoperative complications. This meta-analysis aims to evaluate the anatomical and visual outcomes of pediatric RRD and the factors that influence the treatment results. This is the first meta-analysis on this subject. We searched the relevant publications in the electronic databases of PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar. Eligible studies were included in the analysis. Anatomical success after one surgery and the final rates of success were estimated. Subgroup analysis was performed to find the rate of success in patients with different prognostic factors. This meta-analysis showed that the total rate of success after one surgery was about 64%, which implies that performing the first surgery was enough to get anatomical reattachment in most of the patients. The final anatomical rate of success was about 84%. In terms of visual acuity, the pooled results revealed statistically significant ( P < 0.001) improvement in postoperative vision, with a 0.42 reduction in log of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR). The final rate of success was significantly lower in eyes with proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) (about 25% lower in eyes with PVR, P < 0.001) and in the presence of congenital anomalies (about 36% lower in congenital cases, P = 0.008). Myopic RRD had a significantly better anatomical success rate. In conclusion, this study shows that there is a high chance of anatomical success after pediatric RRD treatment. The presence of PVR and congenital anomalies was associated with a poorer prognosis.
