Title: A Qualitative Study of the Perspectives of Healthcare Professionals on Features of Digital Health Interventions to Support Physical Activity in Solid Organ Transplant Recipients
Authors: Lauren Handler, Paula Jaloul, Jessica Clancy, Brittany Cuypers, Jayme Muir, Julia Hemphill, Tania Janaudis-Ferreira, Chaya Gottesman, Lisa Wickerson, Mike Lovas, Joseph A. Cafazzo, Sunita Mathur
Year: 2022
Venue: Progress in Transplantation (Aliso Viejo, Calif.)
DOI: 10.1177/15269248221145039
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968994

Abstract:
Introduction: Digital health interventions may support physical activity among solid organ transplant recipients. These interventions should be designed with users in mind, including healthcare professionals who counsel transplant recipients on physical activity to ensure acceptance and to promote an optimal user experience. The purpose of this study was to explore the perspectives of health care providers on the features of digital health interventions that would be useful in the promotion, implementation, and maintenance of physical activity among solid organ transplant recipients. Methods: This qualitative, cross-sectional study used semistructured interviews that were conducted remotely, via videoconferencing software, with providers who worked with transplant recipients. Interviews were transcribed, and an iterative-inductive, thematic analysis was used to identify common themes. Data were coded using NVivo software. Findings: Thirteen providers participated in this study. Four main themes were identified: (a) physical activity and exercise features (eg, physical activity guidelines, and exercise instructions); (b) credibility; (c) self-management; and (d) user engagement. Potential barriers to using digital health interventions included staffing requirements, professional regulatory issues, cost, perceived low patient motivation to use, and lack of technological literacy or access. Discussion: Digital health interventions were perceived to be a potential adjunct to current physical activity counseling practices, and part of an innovative strategy to address identified barriers to physical activity participation in solid organ transplant recipients.
