Title: Pediatric sigmoid colonic perforation with Campylobacter enterocolitis: a case report and review of the literature
Authors: Yung-Yu Chu, Cheng-Yi Lin, Tien-Lin Kuo, Shu-Chi Mu, Beng-Huat Lau, Yuh-Yu Chou
Year: 2022
Venue: Journal of Medical Case Reports
DOI: 10.1186/s13256-022-03711-1
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801598

Abstract:
Background Campylobacter -related infectious gastroenteritis is common and usually self-limited. Intestinal perforation is a rare complication of the infectious colitis caused by Campylobacter , and only handful of cases have been reported. This is the first published case report of pediatric Campylobacter intestinal perforation located in the sigmoid colon. Case presentation A 15-year-old previously Taiwanese healthy boy presented with 5 days of fever up to 39.8 °C, with right lower quadrant abdominal pain and watery diarrhea. Although he received antimotility agents and antipyretics at a local clinic to relieve symptoms, he came to the emergency department with signs of shock manifesting as hypothermia to 35.2 °C, tachycardia, and low blood pressure. Laboratory testing demonstrated leukocytosis with left shift and significant elevation of C-reactive protein. Stool and blood cultures were obtained, and he was admitted for fluid challenge and antibiotic treatment. On the second day of admission, he suffered from sudden onset of severe, diffuse abdominal pain. Physical examination revealed muscle guarding, rebounding tenderness, and silent bowel sound. Abdominal X-ray showed subdiaphragmatic free air at standing view. The patient underwent emergent exploratory laparotomy, which revealed sigmoid colon perforation about 0.5 cm. Enterolysis and repair of sigmoid colon were performed. Intraoperative stool specimen nucleic acid amplification testing had turned positive for Campylobacter spp. with negative results for other bacterial pathogens. His symptoms improved and he tolerated food well, and was discharged 15 days after admission. Conclusions We present this case because of the rarity of Campylobacter -induced sigmoid colon perforation in the pediatric population. It is important to keep in mind that sigmoid colon perforation can be due to an infectious cause, and one of the culprits can be Campylobacter . Infectious colitis caused by Campylobacter spp. should be managed cautiously and the use of antimotility agents in such conditions should be considered judiciously.
