Title: Adipopenia in body composition analysis: a promising imaging biomarker and potential predictive factor for patients undergoing transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement
Authors: Georgios Luca Alatzides, Johannes Haubold, Hannah Luisa Steinberg, Sven Koitka, Vicky Parmar, Johannes Grueneisen, Amos Cornelius Zeller, Hartmut Schmidt, Jens Matthias Theysohn, Yan Li, Felix Nensa, Benedikt Michael Schaarschmidt
Year: 2023
Venue: The British Journal of Radiology
DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20220863
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10230376

Abstract:
Objective: Body tissue composition plays a crucial role in the multisystemic processes of advanced liver disease and has been shown to be influenced by transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). A differentiated analysis of the various tissue compartments has not been performed until now. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of imaging biomarkers derived from automated body composition analysis (BCA) to predict clinical and functional outcome. Methods: A retrospective analysis of 56 patients undergoing TIPS procedure between 2013 and 2021 was performed. BCA on the base of pre-interventional CT examination was used to determine quantitative data as well as ratios of bone, muscle and fat masses. Furthermore, a BCA-derived sarcopenia marker was investigated. Regarding potential correlations between BCA imaging biomarkers and the occurrence of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) as well as 1-year survival, an exploratory analysis was conducted. Results: No BCA imaging biomarker was associated with the occurrence of HE after TIPS placement. However, there were significant differences in alive and deceased patients regarding the BCA-derived sarcopenia marker (alive: 1.60, deceased: 1.83, p = 0.046), ratios of intra- and intermuscular fat/skeletal volume (alive: 0.53, deceased: 0.31, p = 0.015) and intra- and intermuscular fat/muscle volume (alive: 0.21, deceased: 0.14, p = 0.031). Conclusion: A lower amount of intra- and intermuscular adipose tissue might have protective effects regarding liver derived complications and survival. Advances in knowledge: Precise characterization of body tissue components with automated BCA might provide prognostic information in patients with advanced liver disease undergoing TIPS procedure.
