Title: Sinonasal/basicranial myxofibrosarcoma: a report of 6 surgical cases combined with a literature review
Authors: Hongbing Li, Huan Wang, Dehui Wang
Year: 2022
Venue: Brazilian Journal of Otorhinolaryngology
DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2022.02.001
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9801034

Abstract:
Highlights • So far surgery is the mainstay of treatment for sinonasal/basicranial MFS. • Negative surgical margin and re-excision for relapsed cases may be recommended to rhinologists. • Early diagnosis and better patient compliance may improve the prognosis. Objective The aim of this study was to report 6 cases of sinonasal/basicranial myxofibrosarcoma and review demographic data, clinical symptoms, diagnostic methods, therapeutic methods, and prognosis on this subject in the literature. Methods We conducted a retrospective analysis of six patients referred to our hospital during a 10-year period from 2010 to 2020. Results In this series, there were four males and two females. The tumours originated from the maxillary sinus in all six cases. The symptoms were nonspecific, and all patients underwent endoscopic resection alone or combined with open resection. The postoperative period was uneventful. All patients were diagnosed with myxofibrosarcoma. After a median follow-up period of 36 (6–52) months, the recurrence rate of MFS was 66.7% (4/6), and the mortality rate was 50% (3/6). Conclusion Sinonasal/basicranial MFS is a rare neoplasm, and the most common primary site is the maxillary sinus. When diagnosing MFS, osteolysis may help rule out benign lesions. So far surgery is the mainstay of treatment for sinonasal/basicranial MFS. Our surgical strategy using endoscopic resection or endoscopic resection combined with open resection to achieve a negative surgical margin and using re-excision operations to treat relapsed cases may be recommended to rhinologists who treat MFS. Prospective randomised trials are needed to study the role of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and our surgical strategy for sinonasal/basicranial MFS. Diagnosing patients at an earlier stage and better patient compliance with follow-up plans may improve the prognosis of patients.
