Title: How a highly acidic SH3 domain folds in the absence of its charged peptide target
Authors: Valeria Jaramillo‐Martinez, Matthew J. Dominguez, Gemma M. Bell, Megan E. Souness, Anna H. Carhart, M. Adriana Cuibus, Elahe Masoumzadeh, Benjamin J. Lantz, Aaron J. Adkins, Michael P. Latham, K. Aurelia Ball, Elliott J. Stollar
Year: 2023
Venue: Protein Science : A Publication of the Protein Society
DOI: 10.1002/pro.4635
Paper ID: pmc_PMC10108434

Abstract:
Abstract Charged residues on the surface of proteins are critical for both protein stability and interactions. However, many proteins contain binding regions with a high net charge that may destabilize the protein but are useful for binding to oppositely charged targets. We hypothesized that these domains would be marginally stable, as electrostatic repulsion would compete with favorable hydrophobic collapse during folding. Furthermore, by increasing the salt concentration, we predict that these protein folds would be stabilized by mimicking some of the favorable electrostatic interactions that take place during target binding. We varied the salt and urea concentrations to probe the contributions of electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions for the folding of the yeast SH3 domain found in Abp1p. The SH3 domain was significantly stabilized with increased salt concentrations due to Debye–Huckel screening and a nonspecific territorial ion‐binding effect. Molecular dynamics and NMR show that sodium ions interact with all 15 acidic residues but do little to change backbone dynamics or overall structure. Folding kinetics experiments show that the addition of urea or salt primarily affects the folding rate, indicating that almost all the hydrophobic collapse and electrostatic repulsion occur in the transition state. After the transition state formation, modest yet favorable short‐range salt bridges are formed along with hydrogen bonds, as the native state fully folds. Thus, hydrophobic collapse offsets electrostatic repulsion to ensure this highly charged binding domain can still fold and be ready to bind to its charged peptide targets, a property that is likely evolutionarily conserved over 1 billion years.
