Title: Effect of Roflumilast Cream (ARQ-151) on Itch and Itch-Related Sleep Loss in Adults with Chronic Plaque Psoriasis: Patient-Reported Itch Outcomes of a Phase 2b Trial
Authors: Linda Stein Gold, Javier Alonso-Llamazares, Zoe D. Draelos, Melinda J. Gooderham, Steven E. Kempers, Leon H. Kircik, Mark G. Lebwohl, Kim A. Papp, David M. Pariser, Darryl P. Toth, Gil Yosipovitch, Robert C. Higham, Amy Feng, David R. Berk
Year: 2022
Venue: American Journal of Clinical Dermatology
DOI: 10.1007/s40257-022-00739-3
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9968264

Abstract:
Background Itch is the most bothersome symptom reported by patients with psoriasis. Safe and effective treatments for psoriasis that also address itch are needed. Objectives To report effects of roflumilast cream on itch-related outcomes from a Phase 2b trial. Methods Adults with chronic plaque psoriasis were randomized to roflumilast 0.3%, roflumilast 0.15%, or vehicle once-daily for 12 weeks. Psoriasis severity was assessed via the Investigator Global Assessment (IGA; a 5-point scale assessing plaque thickening, scaling, and erythema ranging from 0 [clear] to 4 [severe]) and ≥ 2 on a modified Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI-HD, which combines severity of lesions and area affected, ranging from 0 [no disease] to 72 [maximal disease], with the actual percentage of the anatomical area involved in those patients with < 10% of anatomical area involved [e.g., 0.1 for 1% to 0.9 for 9%]). Itch was evaluated via Worst Itch Numeric Rating Scale (WI-NRS), Psoriasis Symptom Diary (PSD) Items 1 (severity of itch) and 2 (bother of itch), and itch-related sleep loss NRS scores. Post hoc correlation analyses between WI-NRS and PASI, WI-NRS and itch-related sleep loss, and WI-NRS and DLQI were also performed. Results Roflumilast-treated patients had significantly greater improvements than vehicle-treated patients in WI-NRS and PSD Items 1 and 2 beginning at Week 2 and in itch-related sleep loss Weeks 6 through 12. Among patients with baseline WI-NRS ≥ 6, significantly more patients achieved ≥ 4-point improvement with roflumilast than with vehicle as early as Week 2. Itch severity had low correlation with PASI while WI-NRS and IGA were not always aligned. Limitations The first assessment was at 2 weeks, limiting the ability to assess early onset of itch response. Conclusion Roflumilast cream improved itch and itch-related sleep loss associated with chronic plaque psoriasis. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT03638258 .
