Title: Quantifying the Changes in the Tumour Vascular Micro-environment in Spinal Metastases Treated with Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy - A Single Arm Prospective Study
Authors: Balamurugan Vellayappan, Dennis Cheong, Salil Singbal, Jeremy Tey, Yu Yang Soon, Cheng Nang Leong, Alvin Wong, Sein Lwin, Chau Hung Lee, Pravin Periasamy, Simon Lo, Naresh Kumar
Year: 2022
Venue: Radiology and Oncology
DOI: 10.2478/raon-2022-0046
Paper ID: pmc_PMC9784370

Abstract:
Abstract Background The primary objective was to quantify changes in vascular micro-environment in spinal metastases (SM) patients treated with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) with multi-parametric dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The secondary objective was to study plasma biomarkers related to endothelial apoptosis. Patients and methods Patients were imaged with DCE-MRI at baseline/1-week/12-weeks post-SBRT. Metrics including normalised time-dependent leakage (Ktrans), permeability surface product (PS), fractional plasma volume (Vp), extracellular volume (Ve) and perfusion (F) were estimated using distributed parameter model. Serum acid sphingomyelinase (ASM) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) were quantified using ELISA. Clinical outcomes including physician-scored and patient-reported toxicity were collected. Results Twelve patients (with varying primary histology) were recruited, of whom 10 underwent SBRT. Nine patients (with 10 lesions) completed all 3 imaging assessment timepoints. One patient died due to pneumonia (unrelated) before follow-up scans were performed. Median SBRT dose was 27 Gy (range: 24–27) over 3 fractions (range: 2–3). Median follow-up for alive patients was 42-months (range: 22.3–54.3), with local control rate of 90% and one grade 2 or higher toxicity (vertebral compression fracture). In general, we found an overall trend of reduction at 12-weeks in all parameters (Ktrans/PS/Vp/Ve/F). Ktrans and PS showed a reduction as early as 1-week. Ve/Vp/F exhibited a slight rise 1-week post-SBRT before reducing below the baseline value. There were no significant changes, post-SBRT, in plasma biomarkers (ASM/S1P). Conclusions Tumour vascular micro-environment (measured by various metrics) showed a general trend towards downregulation post-SBRT. It is likely that vascular-mediated cell killing contributes to excellent local control rates seen with SBRT. Future studies should evaluate the effect of SBRT on primary-specific spinal metastases (e.g., renal cell carcinoma).
